Okay.
Hello Cloud Gurus and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture, we're going to just review
everything we've learned in this section of the course
around Route 53.
So the first thing I'd remember going into the exam
is just understand the difference between an alias
record and a CNAME.
And given the choice in a scenario-based question
always choose an alias record over a CNAME.
Just remember the alias records are unique to AWS.
So it's a way of translating your naked domain name
to a resource.
Could be an Elastic load balancer, an S3 bucket, et cetera.
And it doesn't just have to be the naked domain name.
It could also be a sub domain.
So it could be mobile.hellocloudguru123.com, et cetera.
Whereas a CNAME only allows you to translate
a sub domain names from one to another.
So M might go M.Acloudguru.com.
It might go to mobile.Acloudguru.com, et cetera.
But like I said,
given the choice always choose an alias record
over a CNAME When you see mention of it in your exam.
Also remember going into the exam,
the common DNS record types.
So we've got our start of authority record,
we've got CNAME, we've got our NS records
or name server records
and the record that we've been using throughout
the whole part of this course is our A Records.
And A Records essentially just turn our web addresses
in to IP addresses.
Remember you have 7 different routing policies
available with Route 53
and you will need to know definitely 6 of them.
So simple routing, weighted routing, latency based routing,
failover routing, geolocation routing,
geoproximity routing.
This is using traffic flow only.
Like I said that's a bit beyond the scope of this exam.
So that's why I said you really only need to know 6,
but we cover it off just to be fully transparent
of all the different routing algorithms with Route 53.
And then we have multi value answer routing.
Also remember going into your exam
that registering a domain name.
You can buy domain names directly with AWS
and it can take up to 3 days to register.
But it just depends on the circumstances
of the domain names.
So, before we go on to all our different routing policies
and cover off what they are just in a bit more detail,
remember what health checks are.
You can set a health check on individual record sets
and if a record sets fails a health check
it's going to be removed from Route 53
until it passes the health check.
And you can even configure SNS notifications to alert you
about failed health checks.
So let's review our routing policies
and we'll start with simple routing policy.
So if you choose simple routing policy,
you can only have one record with multiple IP addresses.
And if you specify multiple values in a record,
Route 53 returns all values to the user in a random order.
So you've got our user,
they're going to hellocloudgurus123.com.
And we basically have different IP addresses
in this one record set.
So we've got 30.0.0.1 and 30.0.0.2.
And basically Route 53 is going to pick one of them randomly
and return it to to our user.
So that's all simple routing policies are they do not work
with health checks and we'll come back to that later.
Weighted routing policies.
So in this example, we've got our user.
They visit Route 53 and we want to send basically 20%
of our user base off to us-east-1
and 80% of our user base off to us-west-1.
So to do this, we basically use weighted routing.
And I like to keep it simple.
I like it all to add up to a hundred.
But essentially it would just take the weighting
and add up the sum of all the weighting
and then divide by the individual weighting by that.
And that's how it calculates the percentages.
So if you see any scenario based questions
that's talking about you want to direct a certain percentage
of your traffic to a particular region
or availability zone or whatever.
Then, I want you to think of weighted routing policies.
Moving on to latency based routing policies.
So we've got our user they're in South Africa.
They connecting into Route 53.
They get a 54 millisecond latency when connecting
into eu-west-2 or 300 millisecond latency
when connected into ap-southeast-2.
So Route 53 will give them the lowest latency possible
and then will redirect them to eu-west-2.
So if you see an exam question that's talking about latency,
I want you to think about latency routing.
That's going to be the correct answer.
Failover routing.
Now if you remember, we have our user
and basically we've built our applications
so that we've got an active passive setup.
So our active might be in us-west-1 or us-west-2.
And our passive setup might be an ap-souteast-2.
And essentially fail over routing
will have a health check on each region.
And if we lose a region, it will switch from our active site
to our passive site automatically.
So it's a way of just failingover.
So if you see a mention in the scenario based question
about how to failover from one site to another,
I want you to think of failover routing.
Next we have Geolocation routing.
So this is where we've got a group of customers.
They might be European customers
and we want to only send them to our European web servers.
It might be that those European web servers
have been configured with Euros or with the local languages.
So it might be in French or Italian.
And then we have our US-based customers.
And then they basically only want to go to our web servers
in the US.
So again you might get a scenario based question
where it's talking about how can you make sure
that a group of users in a particular location
only go to a group of web servers in a particular location.
And as soon as you hear the word location
in a scenario based question talking about Route 53,
I want you to think of Geolocation routing.
Geoproximity routing.
This basically lets Amazon Route 53 route your traffic
to resources based on the geographic location
of your users and resources.
But you can optionally choose to route more traffic
or less traffic to given resources by specifying a value
known as a bias.
And a bias basically expands or shrinks the size
of a geographic region from which traffic is routed
to a resource.
And to use geo proximity routing
you must be using Route 53 Traffic Flow.
Route 53 Traffic Flow was that GUI where we can do all kinds
of complicated routing architectures with Route 53.
And then finally, Multivalue Answer Routing.
So, what is Multivalue Answer Routing?
Well, we've got our user they're connecting
into hellocloudgurus.com or hellocloudgurus123.com.
Our first IP address is 30.0.0.1.
We then have a second record which is got another IP address
of 30.0.0.2.
And we have health checks on each record.
And so if we lose our first first record,
Route 53 will automatically just redirect all our traffic
to healthy instance at 30.0.0.2.
So that is it for this section of the course,
you've done really, really well.
Hope you enjoyed it.
And it's now time to move on to the next section.
So if you've got the time,
please join me in the next section.
Thank you.