Hello, Cloud Gurus,
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture, we're going to look at deploying vCenter
in AWS with VMware Cloud on AWS,
and basically we're going to cover off
why you should be using VMware on AWS
or why people do use VMware on AWS.
Then look at use cases for VMware.
We'll then look at how we actually do a deployment
with the vCenter on AWS, and then we'll go to my exam tips.
So why would you use VMware on AWS?
Well, VMware actually predates AWS
and VMware's been around for a long time.
And lots of people have their own
private cloud deployments on VMware.
So it's basically used by organizations
around the world for private cloud deployments.
Some organizations opt for a hybrid cloud strategy
and they'd like to leverage AWS services.
So why would you use VMware on AWS?
What are the use cases?
Well, the first one is Hybrid Cloud
and this is where you're connecting your on-premises cloud
to the AWS public cloud
and you're managing a hybrid workload.
Now, you could have resources in the AWS public cloud
where you don't exactly know how much
you're going to be using.
So you don't know how many EC2 instances
that you're going to need at any given time.
So that might be where you would use hybrid cloud approach.
And we could also be looking at doing a cloud migration,
and this is pretty common.
So basically you're trying to get off
your legacy private cloud in your own data center
and you're trying to migrate your existing environment
to AWS, but you want to use VMware's built-in tools.
A third scenario is disaster recovery.
Again, this is really, really common.
So VMware is famous for its disaster recovery technology.
And using hybrid clouds, you can have
an inexpensive disaster recovery environment on AWS.
And then finally, they, you might just want to leverage AWS.
You might want to use Lambda or API Gateway
or things that are not native within VMware.
So you can use over 200 AWS services to update
your applications or to create new ones.
So let's talk about VMware cloud on AWS
and how it's deployed.
It basically runs on dedicated hardware
hosted in AWS using a single AWS account.
Each host has two sockets with 18 cores per socket,
512 gigs of RAM and 15.2 terabytes of raw SSD storage.
And each host is capable of running
multiple VMware instances up to the hundreds,
depending on how big your instances are.
And then your clusters can start with 2 hosts
with a maximum of 16 hosts per cluster.
And basically, Amazon will always say you need to start
with a minimum of 2 hosts for availability.
So these clusters are going to be your vCenter clusters
and this is how you're going to
basically run vCenter on AWS.
So to be honest, it is not yet in the exam
that we have seen, but it is covered in the new syllabus.
So you really just need to go into the exam remembering
that you can deploy vCenter on the AWS cloud using VMware.
And you actually order it through VMware themselves.
So it's a perfect solution for extending
your private VMware cloud into the AWS public cloud.
So that is it for this lecture, everyone.
Just remember, like I said, you can run vCenter on AWS,
but you need to order it through VMware.
That's all you need to know
going into your exam for this topic.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.