Okay, hello, Cloud Gurus,
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture, we're going to look at EC2 metadata
and user data.
So first, we're gonna learn what EC2 metadata is.
We're going to look at how we can retrieve this.
We're then going to look at how we can use user data
to actually save metadata.
I'm gonna show you a bootstrap script,
and then we're gonna go onto my exam tips.
So what is EC2 metadata?
Well, basically, it's simply data about your EC2 instance.
So this can include information
such as your private IP address, your public IP address,
your MAC address, your host name,
your security groups, et cetera.
It's simply data about your EC2 instance.
Now, in order to retrieve metadata,
the command used to be really, really simple.
It used to just be a curl command
and then to an IP address,
which was http://169.254.169.254
and then /latest and then /metadata.
And it used to come up in the exam quite a bit,
but the command has now changed and it's a lot more complex.
This is the command here.
You'll not be quizzed on this command in your exam.
You just simply basically need to know what metadata is,
and all metadata is its data about your EC2 instance.
So we are going to run this command inside the lab,
but we'll get to that in a second.
Essentially, what we're going to do
is we're going to combine our user data with our metadata.
So remember, user data is just a bootstrap script,
and we're gonna run the following bootstrap script.
It's available in the resources section of the course,
and all it's doing is it's running a yum update.
It's installing httpd,
so it's installing Apache,
basically making it a web server.
It's starting the Apache service,
and then it's going over to the var/www/html directory,
and then it's basically creating a webpage,
and it's using that curl command
to get the public IP address of your EC2 server,
and then it's just going to basically write that out
as a webpage
and then that's it and that's all it does.
So we're using user data to save metadata.
So let's go over to the AWS console.
So here I am in the AWS console.
I'm gonna click on EC2
and then I'm going to go ahead and launch an instance.
I'm gonna call it My, I don't know, WebData,
something like that.
Scroll down.
I'm gonna leave everything as default.
I'm going to use an existing security group
and just going to use my launch-wizard-1,
and then I'm gonna go down to my advanced details
and I'm going to copy and paste my user data,
which we just got from the resources section, into here,
and then that's it.
I'm gonna go ahead and hit Launch Instance.
In here, of course, I need to select MyKeyPair,
but let's go ahead and hit Launch Instance.
That is now launching the instance.
I'm gonna go back over to my instances,
and I'm just going to terminate this one
from one of the last lectures
so it doesn't confuse me what I'm doing.
And in here, we can see that this one is still pending,
so what I'm gonna do now is just pause the video.
Okay, so we can now see that my instance is running.
I can click in here.
We can see my public IP address is 54.164.74.48.
What I'm gonna do is quickly connect
and just see if it made that webpage.
So I'm gonna go ahead and hit Connect,
and it's now establishing a connection.
So I'm just going to wait one second.
I'm going to elevate my privileges to root,
and then I'm gonna go over to my var/www/html directory,
gonna hit ls,
and we can see my index.html in there
and we can just go ahead and open that up,
and there we go.
We can see it's created the webpage
with our public IP address in it.
So that bootstrap script has basically used our metadata,
it's queried our metadata,
and then it's used that metadata to create a website
and it's passing our public IP address out to the world.
So let's go onto my exam tips.
So onto my exam tips,
basically, you just need to remember the difference
between user data and metadata.
User data is simply bootstrap scripts,
so it's things like installing Apache,
starting the Apache service, creating webpages, et cetera,
where metadata is just data about your EC2 instances.
And remember that you can use bootstrap scripts or user data
to access metadata.
You won't be queried on the command in the exam.
Maybe in the developer exam they might do that
but definitely not in solutions architect.
It is useful to know the IP address, though,
so it's 169.254.169.254.
That used to be a popular exam question
but seems to have died away now,
and they're more interested in you just knowing
the difference between user data and metadata.
So that is it for this lecture, everyone.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.