Hello, Cloud Gurus,
and welcome to this lecture.
This lecture's about
extending AWS beyond the cloud with AWS Outposts,
and this has recently been added to the exam,
so it's important you remember the contents of this lecture.
So in this lecture,
we are going to explore what Outposts is.
We're going to look at the benefits.
We're going to look at the different family members.
We're going to look at the process,
and then we're going to look at my exam tips.
So what is Outposts?
Well, basically Outposts brings the AWS data center
directly to you on-premises.
Outposts allows you to have a large variety of AWS services
in your data center,
and you can have Outposts in sizes such as 1U and 2U servers
all the way up to 42U racks and multiple-rack deployments.
So all Outposts is
is bringing AWS services directly to you
in your own data centers.
So you can have things like EC2 instances, for example,
or S3 buckets using AWS Outposts.
So in terms of the benefits of Outposts,
it allows you to have a hybrid cloud.
This is where you can leverage AWS services
inside your own data center.
It's fully managed infrastructure.
So AWS will manage the infrastructure to you.
You don't need your own dedicated team
to look after Outposts infrastructure.
And it brings consistency to your environment.
So it brings the AWS Management Console, APIs,
and SDKs into your data center,
allowing uniform consistency in your hybrid environment.
So let's have a look
at the different Outposts family members.
So we've got Outposts Rack and we've got Outposts Servers,
and a common exam scenario will be asking you
which one of the family members you should be using
given your circumstances.
So with an Outposts Rack, this is a whole rack of servers.
And it's available starting with a single 42U rack,
and it scales all the way up to 96 racks.
So you can have 96 racks with Outposts racks.
And this basically provides AWS compute, storage, database,
and other services locally,
and it gives you the same AWS infrastructure, services,
and APIs, but in your own data center.
So you would only use racks in a data center
or a place where you've got a lot of storage.
Whereas Outposts servers are just individual servers
in 1U or 2U form factor.
So they're just basically 1 or 2 servers,
and their use cases are for small space requirements,
such as retail stores or branch offices
or healthcare provider locations or factory floors.
Basically, you wouldn't take Outposts servers
and deploy them in your own racks in your own data center.
You'd use Outposts racks for that.
So Outposts Servers is just for small space requirements.
And it provides local compute and networking services only.
So in terms of the process,
first of all, you just log into the AWS Management Console
and you order your Outposts configuration.
AWS staff will then come on site
to install and deploy the hardware.
This includes things like power, networking,
and connectivity.
And then you go ahead and launch your instances
using the AWS Management Console,
and you can be launching your instances
on your Outposts on site.
And then you can go ahead
and start building your on-site AWS environment.
So in terms of my exam tips, know what Outposts is.
So if you see a scenario
about extending AWS to your data center,
I want you to think of AWS Outposts.
And just remember that AWS Outposts Rack
for large deployments, so within a data center,
whereas AWS Outposts Servers are for smaller deployments.
So this might be things like in a retail environment,
in a shop, et cetera.
So that is it for this lecture, everyone.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.