Okay, hello Could Gurus,
and welcome to this lecture.
This lecture, we're going to look at
our different networking options with EC2.
So we're going to explore what they are
at a very high level.
What they're going to look at ENIs.
We're going to look at it Enhanced Networking.
We're going to look at ENA versus VFs.
We're then going to look at elastic fabric adapters
and then we'll go onto my exam tips.
So let's just start
with the different networking options with EC2.
So you can attach 3 different types
of virtual networking cards to your EC2 instances
and the 3 are as follows.
You've got ENI which stands
for elastic and network interface.
And this is for basic day-to-day networking.
We then have EN, which is enhanced networking.
And this uses a thing called single root I/O virtualization
or SRIOV
And this allows you to basically have
very high performance networking
on your virtual network cards.
And then we have EFA, which is elastic fabric adapter
and this accelerates high-performance computing
and machine learning applications.
So those are our three different types.
Let's start with ENI.
ENI is simply a virtual network card
that allows you the following options.
So you get a private IPv4 address,
you get a Mac address, you get a public IPv4 address,
you get one or more security groups
which is basically just a virtual firewall in the Cloud.
And then they also allow many IPv6 addresses.
So that's all an ENI is.
And basically where you'd use an ENI
is if you want to create a management network
or you want to use network
and security appliances in your VPC
and you can use ENIs to create dual-homed instances
with workloads and roles on distinct subnets.
This allows you to have private network addresses
that are separate,
so you could have 10.0.1.0 as your management network
and then 10.0.2.0
as let's say another internal network that's separate
from your management network
and ENIs are a way of creating a low budget,
high availability solution.
So ENIs are very, very common
when you create a instance by default,
it will have an ENI attached to it.
So what is enhanced networking?
Well, this is the high performance networking
between 10 gigabits per second
and 100 gigabits per second.
And it uses single root I/O virtualization
or SR-IOV to provide higher I/O performance
and lower CPU utilization.
And so enhanced networking just provides higher bandwidth,
higher packets per second performance,
and it gives you a consistently lower
inter-instance latency.
So with enhanced networking,
it comes into different flavors.
You can use it using elastic network adapter, or ENA,
and you could also use it using the Intel 802599
virtual function or VF interface.
Now your elastic network adapter
basically supports network speeds
of up to a hundred gigabits per second
for supported instance types.
Whereas your Intel 82599 virtual function interfaces
only support speeds of up to 10 gigabits per second,
for your instance types.
And this is typically used on older instances.
Now, if you come up with a scenario question in your exam,
it's talking about using enhanced networking,
and then it's saying,
hey should you be using it in an elastic network adapter?
Or should you be using the Intel 82599
virtual function interface?
Well, to be honest
you always want to be using the elastic network adapter
always choose that over the VF interface
because it's a lot faster
and it's a lot more modern.
Moving on to EFA.
So what is an EFA?
Well, this is just an elastic fabric adapter
and it's a network device that you can attach
to your Amazon EC2 instances
to accelerate high performance computing
and machine learning applications.
And it's going to provide you with a lower
and more consistent latency and a higher throughput
than TCP transport traditionally used
in cloud-based HP systems.
So if you see anything again,
in a scenario-based question where they're talking
about high performance computing
and what network adapters should you use,
I want you to think of elastic fabric adapters.
So elastic fabric adapter can also use this thing
called an OS-bypass.
And this basically makes it a lot faster
with a much lower latency
and OS-bypasses enable high performance compute
and machine learning applications
to bypass the operating system kernel
and communicate directly
with the elastic fabric adapter device.
Now it's not currently supported with Windows,
it's only supported with Linux,
but again if you see anything about an OS-bypass
and how you can enhance your HPC
and machine learning applications,
I just want you to think of using OS-bypass
with elastic fabric adapter.
So onto my exam tips.
There is a entire certification
on networking called advanced networking specialty with AWS.
So you really don't need to know a huge amount
of advanced networking.
You just really need to know the 3 different types
of network adapters that are available to you
and what scenarios you should use those for.
So we've got ENI and this is basic networking.
So perhaps you need a separate management network
for your production network or a separate logging network
or even a monitoring network.
And you need to do this at a low cost.
Well, in this scenario, you want to use multiple ENIs
for each network and then have enhanced networking.
This is where you need speeds
between 10 gigabits per second
and 100 gigabits per second,
and essentially use this way anywhere you need
reliable and high throughput.
And then we have our EFAs
and every time you see the term high performance computing
or machine learning,
I want you to think of EFAs straight away
or if you need to do an OS level bypass.
So if you see a scenario question
talking about HPC or machine learning
and asking what network adapter you want to use,
choose an elastic fabric adapter.
So that is it for this lecture everyone.
If you have any questions,
please let me know, if not,
feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.