Okay, hello Cloud Gurus, and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture, we're going to look at
how we can optimize EC2 using placement groups.
So, first we're going to look at our
three different types of placement groups.
We're then going to deep dive into
clustered placement groups, spread placement groups,
partition placement groups,
and then we'll move on to my exam tips.
So, the 2 types of placement groups are, guess what?
Clustered placement groups, spread placement groups,
and partitioned placement groups.
Well, what does that actually even mean?
Well, let's look at a clustered placement group.
And this is basically a grouping of instances
within a single availability zone.
And this is recommended for applications
that need really low network latency,
high network throughput, or both.
And essentially because they're
in the same availability zone
they're very very close to each other.
So, it's a way of speeding up the rate
at which your EC2 instances communicate.
And only certain types of EC2 instances can be launched
into a clustered placement group
Moving on we then got spread placement groups.
And this is where you've got a group of instances
that are each place on distinct underlying hardware.
And this is recommended for applications
that have a small number of critical instances
that should be completely separate from each other.
So, they spread out rather than being close together.
This is used for individual instances.
So, you might say, hey I don't want my primary database
to be on the exact same hardware as my secondary database
or my backup database.
I need them to be on different hardware.
So, that's where you would use spread placement groups.
And then we have partition placement groups.
And this is where every partition placement group
has its own set of racks.
And each rack has its own network and power source.
So, no 2 partitions within placement groups
share the same racks which allows you to isolate
the impact of hardware failure within your application.
So, EC2 divides each group
into logical segments called partitions.
So, partition basically it's a rack.
It's a way of grouping your EC2 instances
into dedicated network and power sources.
So, that's all it is.
And this is used when you've got multiple instances
and you want them to be on their own dedicated network
and power sources.
So, going into your exam
just remember three different types of placement groups.
So, if you've got EC2 applications
that are running high performance compute
and you need really low network latency
or high network throughput
then you are going to want a clustered placement group.
If you've got individual critical EC2 instances
that need to be on their own dedicated hardware
then you want to use spread placement groups.
And if you've got multiple EC2 instances
so this could be things like HDFS or HBase and Cassandra
and they need to be on their own racks
and dedicated network infrastructure
then you've got petitioned placement groups.
So, clustered placement group
can't span multiple availability zones
whereas a spread placement group
and a partition placement group can.
And only certain types of instances
can be launched in a placement group.
So, these are compute optimized, GPU optimized,
memory optimized, or storage optimized.
And AWS recommends that you have homogenous instances
within a clustered placement groups.
You always have the same type of instances
within a clustered placement group.
Also remember you can't merge placement groups.
You can't have 2 different clustered placement groups
and then merge them together
and you can move an existing instance
into a placement group but
before you move the instance
the instance must be in the stop state and then you can move
or remove an instance using the command line, the SDK,
but you can't do it using the console just yet.
So, that's all the placement groups are
they're a way of logically grouping your EC2 instances
depending on what it is you want to do.
You just need to remember the 3 placement group types
going into your exam and the different are
use cases for those placement groups.
So, that is it for this lecture everyone
if you have any questions please let me know.
If not feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.