Okay. Hello Cloud Gurus
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture, I just wanted to explore
a little bit deeper about solving licensing issues
with Dedicated Hosts.
So a few lectures ago, we looked at
the different types of pricing models with AWS.
So we had our On-Demand,
we had Reserved Instances,
we had Dedicated Hosts,
and we have Spot.
In here, we're just going to look at Dedicated Hosts.
In the next lecture, we'll look at Spot,
and we'll just explore that in a bit more detail,
and then we finish with this section of the course.
So, in terms of this lesson,
we're just going to look at the different pricing models.
Just have a reminder.
We're going to look at Dedicated Host,
and we'll go on to my exam tips.
So like I said, we had On-Demand,
which is you pay by the hour, or by the second,
depending on the type of instance you run.
We then have Reserved,
and this gives you the most amount of savings
possible compared to On-Demand.
So you can reserve capacity for 1 to 3 years.
The more you pay up front, the more discount you get.
You can get up to 72% discount on the hourly charge.
We have Spot, and this is where you're purchasing
unused capacity at a discount of up to 90%.
But the prices fluctuate with supply and demand.
And then finally we have Dedicated,
and this is a physical EC2 server
that's dedicated for your use.
And this is the most expensive option.
So we looked at different use cases for this
and we talked about compliance.
So this is where you've got regulatory requirements
that may not support multi-tenant virtualization
or it could be that you've got licensing requirements.
So this is great for licensing
that doesn't support multi-tenancy or cloud deployments.
So this could be Microsoft licensing
or Oracle licensing, et cetera.
You can purchase Dedicated Hosts On-Demand,
so you can pay for them by the hour,
and you can reserve Dedicated Hosts as well.
For, and you can save up to 70% off the On-Demand price
if you go ahead and reserve your Dedicated Hosts.
But really the whole point of this lecture
is just to tell you this exam tip.
So any question that you see
about special licensing requirements,
I want you to think of Dedicated Host.
So Dedicated Host is just simply a physical server
with an EC2 instance capacity
that's fully dedicated to your use.
Dedicated Host allow you to use
your existing per-socket, per-core
or per virtual machine software licensing.
This can include things like Windows Server,
Microsoft SQL Server, SUSE Linux Enterprise Server,
and some Oracle licensing as well.
So really any exam scenario question
where it's talking about
you've got special licensing requirements
or compliance requirements.
I just want you to think of Dedicated Host.
So that is it for this lecture everyone.
If you've got any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.