Well, hello Gurus.
In this lesson, we're going to discuss
Fixing IP Caching using AWS Global Accelerator.
Now, in this lesson,
we're going to cover several different topics.
We're going to talk about what Global Accelerator is,
we'll look at some different concepts
and some terms you should be familiar with,
we're going to have a high-level view of the service,
we'll dive into an architectural design view
so you're familiar with how it works,
and then we'll wrap things up with some exam tips.
So, let's get cached
and talk about some AWS Global Accelerator.
AWS Global Accelerator, otherwise shortened as GA,
is a networking service designed to optimize
and enhance the performance of your applications
by routing your user's traffic
through AWS's global network infrastructure.
Now, these different points
where the routing occurs are known as accelerators.
The service leverages Anycast IP addresses
and these improve performance and help manage IP caching.
This results in faster
and more reliable user experiences around the globe.
It is important to call out that Global Accelerator
is primarily intended for managing TCP or UDP traffic.
It makes it well-suited for applications
that require low latency and high availability.
One of its major distinctions from Amazon CloudFront
is that CloudFront
is meant to be a content delivery network service
focused on content caching and distribution
via HTTP and HTTPS,
so they function at different layers.
Now, moving on, let's explore some concepts
and some terms you should be familiar with.
An accelerator is a crucial component of this service.
It directs and optimizes your user's traffic
by routing it to the most suitable AWS endpoints.
It acts as the entry point for incoming traffic
and helps improve the performance
and availability of the applications.
Listeners are responsible
for processing the inbound connections
based on specific ports and specific protocols.
These enable you to configure how your end user traffic
is actually directed to the endpoints.
And lastly, endpoints are the actual AWS resources,
like application load balancers,
network load balancers, or even E2 instances,
to which Global Accelerator directs your traffic.
These are what serve as the destination points
for your user's requests.
All right, next up we can get into a high-level view
of using this service so we can cover
some of the important points for this exam.
Global Accelerator provides
two static Anycast IPv4 addresses
for your accelerators by default.
In the case of using dual-stack IP addressing,
you actually receive four static IPs,
two for IP version 4 and two for IP version 6.
These Static IPs act as a single fixed entry point
for all client traffic.
That's how Anycast IP trafficking works.
Global Accelerator offers you two accelerator types
to control how your traffic is actually directed.
With a standard accelerator,
GA chooses the healthiest closest endpoint for your traffic.
With custom routing accelerators,
you use application logic
to directly map one traffic
to a specific EC2 instance
among many different destinations.
Now, this happens all while gaining
the performance improvements of routing your traffic
through the Global Accelerator service.
A custom routing accelerator is useful
when you have an application that requires groups of users
to interact with each other via the same session,
so an example of this would be a gaming application.
Okay, now that we have the high-level view out of the way,
let's have a quick architecture overview
so we can visualize how this works.
In this example, we have our AWS account on the right side
and we have our different endpoints
within two different regions across the globe.
What happens is AWS Global Accelerator
creates two global accelerators for us to use
which leverage a point of presence
or an edge networking location via the CloudFront network.
With these accelerators,
we also get assigned two Anycast IP addresses
for us to use within our routing logic
and our DNS configuration.
Now, these can be mapped
to our example web Internet of Things service,
which is going to be listening on port 443.
Remember, TCP and UDP.
Now, the two endpoints we see on the right hand side,
which are different elastic load balancer types
are natively supported via standard endpoints.
From a traffic flow perspective,
if we assume we have users in, say, Ghana and Australia,
whenever they make their request
to our web service via port 443,
Global Accelerator is going to automatically handle
sending that traffic to the most optimized endpoint.
And the beautiful thing is this happens
without us having to specifically pick where it's going.
Global Accelerator sends the traffic
over the AWS Backbone network.
Now, this is big because this network is free from jitter
and congestion when you compare it
to the global public internet.
Because of this,
the networking performance is extremely high.
And the beautiful thing is all of this happens
without us needing to actually implement
any major architectural changes.
All right, let's wrap things up
with some exam tips before we move on.
When you encounter scenarios related to IP caching,
consider the use of Global Accelerator
as it plays a crucial role in optimizing traffic
and reducing your latency.
By default, Global Accelerator provides you
two Anycast IP addresses,
which are essential for routing and optimizing your traffic.
Dual-stack will provide you four addresses,
two IP version 4 and two IP version 6.
You need to understand the concept
of how Anycast IP traffic works
and how it benefits the performance
and availability of your applications.
Global Accelerator uses edge locations
to accelerate the delivery of traffic.
This is a key component of its performance optimization.
And with that, make sure you are aware
that Global Accelerator is primarily designed
for handling TCP and UDP traffic.
It's suitable for use cases like gaming applications
and IoT messaging.
And lastly, you need to be able
to recognize the distinctions
between Global Accelerator and CloudFront.
While CloudFront is a content delivery network,
it is primarily meant to be focused on content caching
and distribution via HTTP and HTTPS protocols.
Global Accelerator, on the other hand,
is tailored for optimizing network traffic and routing
via TCP and UDP.
Okay, that's gonna do it for this lesson
on IP caching via Global Accelerator.
Let's go ahead and wrap things up,
we'll take a break
and then we can pick back up with the next lesson.