Welcome back.
In this lesson, we're going to be taking a look
at one of AWS's most popular caching solutions: CloudFront.
We're going to start it off
by taking a look at what is CloudFront,
where do we want to put it inside of our architecture,
and how does it use those edge locations?
We'll dive into some important settings
that you need to be aware of
when you're setting up your CloudFront distribution,
and then we'll go ahead
and jump into my console and build one out.
And then we'll loop back after that
with some of those exam tips.
So let's go ahead and dive right on in.
So what is CloudFront?
Well, at its core, CloudFront is a content delivery network
(commonly called a CDN).
What CloudFront allows us to do is
to take our static content (our images,
our videos, our applications)
and distribute them out
to those edge locations all over the globe.
You remember those edge locations from a previous lesson?
Those 100+ locations all over the world?
Well, instead of storing all of your content
in one single location
and making your users come and get it,
we can store it basically everywhere.
So let's go ahead and actually see
what this looks like.
Now, imagine for a second that you live in Europe--
and for my European friends,
this is probably a very real reality for you.
You would like to look at some
of those amazing American cat photos
that I've stored in my Oregon bucket in S3.
Now, if you're sitting there in London
or in Paris or somewhere in Germany trying to download this,
your cats have to travel a very, very, very long distance.
And that makes you sad because they load line by line
and it's just not fun.
You want your cats delivered quickly.
So what we're going to do is we're going to insert
CloudFront in between.
Now what's going to happen is my very first user
is going to make a request through CloudFront
to say, "Hey, give me some of those American cats."
CloudFront is going to say, "Great.
"I'm going to go to S3, grab those cats.
"I'm going to hold onto a copy in that local edge location,
and then I'm going to return those cats to that user."
Now that didn't really speed much up on the first request,
but what about the second request,
the third request, the fourth request, the nth request?
Because there is a copy of those cats stored
in that edge location,
those users get their content quickly.
So this allows me to take my single location
for those cat photos
and effectively make it a global cat distribution service.
Now there are reasons to consider CloudFront
besides just the blistering speed that it brings
to your cat distribution service.
The first reason is security.
It actually defaults to an HTTPS connection.
Now that's great out the box
because we always want to have HTTPS endpoints.
It also allows you to attach a custom SSL certificate
if you don't want to use the CloudFront endpoint.
Effectively, if you want to route your entire domain
through CloudFront, it's really simple to do.
It also allows you to put a secure connection
on your S3 static websites.
And that's an important fact to remember for the exam.
With CloudFront, we actually can't pick specific countries
or specific edge locations to distribute your content to.
Now, as we'll see in a few minutes,
you can pick general areas of the globe,
but it's maybe more continent based than anything else.
You can create a very rudimentary allow
or deny list for particular countries,
but if you do have to block or allow particular countries,
you don't really want to use CloudFront to do it.
You want to use the Web Application Firewall
to make that happen because it's a lot more feature rich.
CloudFront supports AWS endpoints.
Now that's kind of a no-brainer.
You could have all guessed that,
but you might be surprised
to know it actually supports non-AWS endpoints.
So if you've taken this course up until now
and you've said, "I hate everything AWS related,
"but I love content distribution networks,"
you could use the CDN to front your data center
or another cloud provider.
It's up to you.
Now, whenever you think of a cache,
you should be thinking about stale content.
Normally, you want to rely on that TTL,
that time to live.
It's really going to set how long your data's going to live
at those edge locations before it gets refreshed.
Now, if you make a mistake--
namely, maybe you set that to wait too long
before the content is refreshed--
you can go out and proactively expire that content.
You can force a refresh to kick your content
out to the cache and go and get something new.
Now, CloudFront is great to talk about in theory.
Let's go ahead and jump into my console
and build out a distribution for one of my websites.
I've got my CloudFront console up.
Now for those folks following along at home,
I do have a static S3 website
that I've created before I started this demo.
Now a quick note: This console is likely
to change in the near future.
It is ripe for a refresh
using the new Amazon design language.
So if it has changed by the time you've seen this video,
please don't panic.
I promise the content is all still relevant.
They just like to move the buttons around.
So let's go ahead and create our first distribution here.
So I'm going to create a web distribution
and I'm going to start off here with the origin domain name.
Now I'm actually going to pick
from here a list of my S3 buckets, maybe my load balancers,
right? Effectively, what's serving out that content.
In my case, I actually just want to paste
in here my S3 bucket URL,
because this is a static S3 website that I'm going to use.
Scrolling down a little bit farther.
Unfortunately, in this video, I'm not able to talk about all
of these settings because there are a lot.
The good news for you is most
of them aren't actually relevant
for the Associate-level test.
We'll circle back to this content in the Professional exam
if you choose to take that step,
but I will call out a few important features
that you will need to know for this particular exam.
Right now, I'm allowing both HTTP and HTTPS.
I can restrict that via redirect or just have HTTPS only.
Little bit farther down here.
It is important to know that I can create signed URLs
or have signed cookies to restrict what user
or users can access my content
and for how long that's going to be accessible.
It is important to know that you can restrict access
to your content via CloudFront using signed URLs
or signed cookies.
You don't need to know how to do this
for this particular exam.
You just need to know
that this is an option that you can add
in those temporary access points to your architecture.
Little bit farther here.
We can see that I actually can't pick
particular edge locations.
In fact, it's really just continent based.
Here, North America and Europe,
the rest of the world.
I'm just going to leave it with all edge locations.
We can't pick a particular edge location,
nor really would we want to.
Now, if we remember from our security lecture,
we talked about that Web Application Firewall.
We can attach a WAF to our CloudFront distribution
if we need that additional level of security and control.
I'm using the default SSL certificate.
But if you want,
you can upload your own custom SSL certificate
and run your entire domain through it.
If you have something a little bit better than mine--
maybe you own catvideos.com
and you want to build your cat empire--
you can serve it out securely.
Now the rest of this, I'm just going to go ahead
and leave blank--or default, I should say--
then I'm going to click Create.
Now this is going to take a few minutes.
So I'm going to go ahead
and pause the video, and we'll check back in
as soon as this is finished.
All right, looks like that just finished.
And there's a lot of settings on here,
but the one that we really care
about is going to be that domain name.
So let's go ahead and grab that real fast.
And I'm going to open up a new tab and paste that in.
Now, I feel the need...the need for speed.
All right, not the most exciting website,
but it is using those edge locations
to get that content out quickly,
and notice up here in my browser,
this is a static S3 website,
and it has, magically, HTTPS.
Well, it's not magic.
It's CloudFront,
but that's a good thing to remember.
Now I know this was a whirlwind tour of CloudFront,
but let's go ahead and jump back into the slides
and cover some of those exam tips.
My first exam tip is CloudFront fixes all connection issues.
Now I understand in the real world,
things are a little bit more nuanced.
But remember on this exam, AWS loves caches.
So put a cache in front of your application.
Use CloudFront to cache your content externally.
Slow connections from around the globe?
Cache it.
Images or videos aren't loading?
Cache it.
And we use CloudFront to make all of that happen.
Oh, a few more tips here for us.
CloudFront's fast.
In fact, speed is the main purpose
of what we want to use this for.
So we can cache those static images, videos, right?
The things that take a long time.
All of those cat pictures that we want to look at.
Cache them in those edge locations using CloudFront.
Supports both on-prem and cloud architecture.
So it's not just for AWS.
That's going to be an important tidbit for you to remember.
CloudFront can be used to block individual countries,
but the WAF is going to be a better option.
Because remember, the WAF gives us more flexibility
as far as rate limiting, SQL injection attacks.
It has more nuance around it,
where CloudFront's just going to be allow or deny.
It's very simplistic.
So in general, we want to front our CloudFront distributions
with a WAF to give us that finer level of control.
You can use all the locations
or you can kind of dictate particular continents.
That's really about it.
So on the exam,
make sure you don't pick answers that say,
"Oh, we're only using this specific edge location"
because that's not actually offered by CloudFront.
And one final tip here for us.
If you're trying to melt snow while you're on a hike,
pour some water into the pot.
It'll dramatically reduce the time
that it takes for the snow to melt,
and you'll save a lot of fuel.
All right, folks.
Thanks for going through CloudFront here with me,
and I can't wait to see you in the next lesson.