Hello, Cloud Gurus.
Welcome to this lesson,
Leveraging the AWS Serverless Application Repository.
Let's walk through a quick lesson breakdown,
so we can see what we're expected
to take away from this lesson.
The first thing we'll cover is:
what is the AWS Serverless Application Repository?
We'll talk about publishing and deploying applications.
And then we'll go ahead and wrap things up
with some exam tips.
So let's get started.
What is the Serverless Application Repository?
Well, this is a service that makes it easy for developers
and organizations to find, deploy,
and even publish serverless applications
within their own AWS accounts.
You're able to easily publish applications,
and then you can even share them publicly
with the community at large,
or you can share them privately
within your own organization.
Along with the application code,
you upload what is called a manifest file.
And this is known as a SAM template,
so AWS Serverless Application Model template.
And a great feature of this service is that
it is deeply integrated within the AWS Lambda service.
It actually appears within the console itself.
Now, currently within the service,
there are 2 options to choose from.
You can publish, or you can deploy.
So let's talk about the differences of each.
When you publish, you're actually publishing apps
to make them available for others to find and then deploy.
Again, these are defined with AWS SAM templates,
which are essentially CloudFormation templates,
in addition to your application code.
When you first publish your app,
it's actually set to private by default.
So only the AWS account that created it,
can actually see it.
If you wish to share it,
you must explicitly share that application.
And you can share it with specific accounts
or publicly with everyone.
There's some flexibility there.
Now, let's go ahead and take a look at deploy.
With deploy, you find and deploy published applications
within the console and the public catalog.
The cool thing about this is
you can browse these public applications
without even needing an AWS account.
But if you do have an account,
you can browse it within the AWS Lambda console.
So with the click of a few buttons,
you can deploy a full, serverless application
from this one console view.
It's very, very nifty.
Now, of course, a disclaimer,
you need to be careful of trusting
all applications that are posted publicly.
Don't just go ahead and deploy everything you see.
Some obviously could have issues or vulnerabilities.
And that's going to do it.
So let's have some quick exam tips for you to take away.
One of the big takeaways here are templates.
Remember, you define entire application stacks
via these SAM templates.
And these are private by default when you publish them.
You have 2 choices: you can publish or you can deploy.
So you can choose to publish your own app,
or deploy one that's publicly available
or shared with your account.
And then lastly, it's heavily integrated with AWS Lambda.
Again, you can see it within the console
and deploy entire stacks with a few clicks
of a couple buttons.
That'll do it.
Let's go ahead end here.
When you're ready, I'll see you in the next one.