Welcome back, Cloud Gurus.
This lesson is titled,
Orchestrating Containers Outside AWS
Using Amazon EKS Anywhere and Amazon ECS Anywhere.
Throughout this lesson, we'll cover a variety of topics.
We'll have an overview of what EKS Anywhere is.
We'll look at some of the concepts that go along with it.
Then we'll move on to ECS Anywhere,
and we'll look at the requirements
for that particular service.
Now, to simplify things, we'll have an example diagram,
just so you can visualize how this actually works.
And then we'll wrap things up with some exam tips
for you to bring into your exam.
Okay, so what is Amazon EKS Anywhere?
This is a service that provides you a way
of running on-premises EKS.
So, you can run and manage Kubernetes clusters,
using the same operational excellence and best practices
that AWS uses for its Amazon EKS service. But
the key difference is you run these clusters on-premises.
Now, it's based on what is known as the EKS Distro.
And what this does is it allows for deployments,
usage, and management methods for your clusters
within your data centers.
And again, these are all based on Amazon EKS standards.
Now, the whole goal of this particular service
is based around lifecycle management.
So, it offers full lifecycle management
of your multiple on-premises Kubernetes clusters.
And these operate independently of AWS services.
So, that's a key factor to keep in mind.
Well, what are some concepts of this service?
Well, the first thing is control plane.
Kubernetes control plane management
is operated completely by the customer.
So, that's a key difference because with Amazon EKS,
you can leverage AWS for some of those management tasks.
The second thing is the location.
And the big difference here is that
this control plane location is entirely
within a customer data center or operations center.
It's not in AWS.
And, since it is entirely managed by the customer,
all cluster updates are done entirely via manual CLI
or what is known as Flux.
And don't worry, you don't need to know Flux
at any sort of level for this exam,
it's just a good thing to know.
Another cool feature of EKS Anywhere
is it offers curated packages.
So, these are offered to extend core functionalities
of your Kubernetes clusters on-premises.
And then lastly, these curated packages
are unfortunately only able to be used
via an enterprise subscription, which does cost some money.
All right, so now that we have a general understanding
of what this service does, let's move on to ECS Anywhere.
Now, this service is slightly different.
The big thing here is that this offers you a feature
of Amazon ECS, which is going to enable you to run
and manage your container applications on-premises,
including your own VMs and even bare-metal servers.
With this service, you don't have to take the time to
install or operate local container orchestration software,
which means you're going to have
much more operational efficiency
because there's less operational overhead.
Now, ECS Anywhere does offer a completely managed solution,
which is going to enable standardization
of your container management
across all of your environments.
So, you're leveraging ECS standards and practices
and protocols on-premises.
Now, one thing to keep in mind with this service
is since it's on-premises, you need to keep in mind
that there is no elastic load balancing support
for inbound traffic,
so that has to be handled separately.
And the last tidbit here
is this Amazon ECS service added what is known
as the EXTERNAL launch type for creating your services
or running tasks on your external instances.
So, what are some requirements for this service?
Well, there are several.
First, you must have the SSM Agent,
ECS Agent, and Docker installed on that local server.
You also must first register your external instances
as Systems Manager-managed instances,
otherwise it won't work.
However, you can do this by easily creating
an installation script within the ECS console
and then running that
on your external instances and servers.
Now, this installation script contains what is known
as a Systems Manager activation key
and then the different commands for the required software.
So, think of all the agents and the Docker software itself.
Now, the cool thing about these scripts
is you can literally execute them anywhere.
So, on your on-premises VMs or even your bare-metal servers,
it doesn't really matter.
And then, once you do that,
you just leverage the EXTERNAL launch type
and you can now manage your ECS cluster within the console,
but all of the hardware is running on-premises.
It's actually really cool.
So, let's have a quick diagram walkthrough,
so we can get a better understanding
or visualization of how this works.
We have our on-premises data center with our VM,
and this is where we want to run our ECS cluster.
Well, the first thing we need to do is we need to install
all of the agents.
So we need to install the ECS Agent,
we need to install the SSM Agent,
we need to install Docker,
and then using all of those,
we can start running containers.
Now, obviously there are some steps in between,
but this is just a high-level diagram representation
of what it takes to run.
And once we have all of those 3 agents
and softwares installed, we can configure them
to communicate with our AWS accounts.
So, the ECS agent is going to talk to Amazon ECS
in our account, so it's going to keep track
of what version you're on, your cluster status, etc.,
and then the SSM Agent is communicating
with Systems Manager, which allows you to run your scripts
and see them as managed instances within the console.
Okay, with that out of the way, let's go over some exam tips
for you to take with you.
EKS Anywhere. Understand,
this is not a commonly used service,
and it's not commonly featured on the exams,
thus, the reason we covered it at a higher level.
Know that it is based on the EKS Distro, which allows you
to run EKS Kubernetes clusters on-premises--pretty simple.
The neat thing about this is you leverage AWS efficiency.
So, it allows customers
to maintain similar operational efficiencies
to the actual Amazon EKS service.
However, it is all managed by you, literally everything,
including control plane management and location.
So, really remember that as well.
Now, let's move on to ECS Anywhere.
The first thing to know is this is actually a feature
within Amazon ECS itself.
It's not separate like EKS Anywhere.
It allows for AWS-managed container orchestration
anywhere on-premises or outside of AWS.
There are a few requirements.
You must have your SSM Agent installed and configured,
your ECS Agent installed and configured,
and you must also have Docker installed.
Now to use it, you register and deploy.
So, you execute scripts that contain the required steps,
and then you leverage the external launch type
within Amazon ECS.
Now, that's going to do it for this lesson.
When you're ready, I'll see you in the next one.