Okay, hello cloud gurus
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture we're doing an overview
of disaster recovery strategies.
So the first thing we're gonna look at is
what our recovery point objective is.
We're then gonna look at
what our recovery time objective is,
and your RPOs and RTOs basically determine
what your disaster recovery strategy is going to be.
So we're gonna look at the four different types.
We're gonna look at backup and restore.
We're gonna look at pilot light,
we're gonna look at warm standby,
and then we're gonna look at active active failover.
And then we'll go on to my exam tips.
So let's start with our RPO.
RPO stands for recovery point objective.
And in the event of a disaster or failure,
at what point in time do you want your data recovered to?
Basically put simply, how much data can you afford to lose?
Can you afford to lose 24 hours?
Can you afford to lose 12 hours?
Can you only afford to lose a few minutes or a few seconds
or can you not afford to lose any data at all?
So typically speaking, the lower the time,
the greater the cost.
So the lower your RPO, the greater the cost is to you.
So if you can only afford to lose milliseconds
or seconds of data, it's gonna cost you a lot more.
Whereas if it's like a static webpage, for example,
that doesn't change very much,
maybe you can afford to lose 24 hours of data.
It's completely up to you and your business needs.
Moving on to recovery time objective or RTO.
So this is in the event of a failure.
How fast do you want to fail over?
So how much time can the business afford
and the lower the time, the more expensive the cost.
So this basically means how long can your website be down?
If it's a non-critical website,
can it be down for a couple of days?
But if it's a critical website,
like your production web servers
that generate all your revenue,
how long can you afford to have that site down?
Can the business only afford a couple of hours,
a couple of minutes, a couple of seconds, et cetera.
So the lower the time, the more expensive the cost.
So now that we understand RTO and RPO,
we're gonna move on to backup and restore.
And this is the simplest disaster recovery strategy.
Basically, if something happens to your production system,
you restore that system from backup.
So let's say we've got our EC2 instance
and it goes offline.
We've got a snapshot of that EC2 instance.
So we can basically just restore from a snapshot
and basically recreate our EC2 instance.
So that's just the backup and restore strategy.
Moving on to something a little bit more complicated
is the pilot light scenario.
So pilot light in a home hot water system is
where a small light burns
so that when you want to turn the hot water system on,
it starts straight away.
You don't need to ignite any flames.
So when a pilot light is burning,
it's not consuming the same level of gas
as to when the system is on.
So how does this work with EC2 and with Amazon?
Well, think of this scenario.
So you've got US-east-1, you've got a VPC in there,
you've got three web servers and one database server.
And that database server is doing live replication
to another database server in US-West-1
but there's no web servers.
So essentially this scenario over here off to your right,
is the pilot light.
The pilot light is going, you've got all your data
being transmitted, but you don't have any web servers.
Now if we suddenly lose a region, what do we do?
Well then we just basically provision our three web servers
in front of that database server and then we can fail over.
So we're lighting the flames,
we're lighting up the web servers,
and essentially we are restoring that way.
So that's all a pilot light scenario is.
The next scenario we've got is a warm standby.
And this is where you have a scaled down version
of your production system
already running in another availability zone or region.
And then you scale this system up in the event of an outage.
So very similar to the pilot light,
but just a bit more scaled up.
So we've got us east one, we've got our three web servers
and our database server.
And then we've got live application
of our database server over to US-West-1
but we also have a web server.
So we've got a warm standby ready to go.
Then if we lose our US-East-1, we lose that region,
well we've still got US-west-1 and we just scale up
and we add additional web servers
so it can basically deal with the traffic.
So that's all a warm standby is.
We then have the final one,
which is our active/active failover.
And this is the most expensive disaster recovery strategy.
And it's where you have two sites,
both active and traffic is split between the two.
And if one site fails, then the other site takes the load.
And generally, you have to have both sites
at 200% normal capacity to avoid downtime.
So let's have a look at how this works.
So we've got our two VPCs one's in US-East-1,
one's in US-West-1
One got our three web servers in each of them.
And we've got our database servers in each of them.
And it's a mirrored environment and both are active.
And then if we lose one of our regions,
we automatically fail our traffic over to US-West-1,
which has the resources in there to cope with that load.
So going on to my exam tips with RPO and RTO,
you need to know the difference between them.
So RPO is at what point in time
do you want your environment recovered to?
So it's your recovery point objective.
And our RTO is how quickly
you need to recover your environment.
So how much downtime can the business handle?
This is our recovery time objective.
And then you just need to remember
the four different disaster recovery strategies.
So we had backup on restore,
this is the cheapest, but usually the slowest option.
Got pilot light. This is faster than our backup and restore,
but you still have some downtime.
We then have warm standby.
This is quicker recovery time than pilot light,
but slightly more expensive.
And then finally, we've got our active/active failover.
And this is the most expensive option,
but there's no downtime and it has our lowest RTO and RPO.
So that is it for this lecture, everyone.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you!