Hello cloud gurus and welcome back.
In this lesson, we're gonna be taking a look
at two AWS surfaces, namely Athena and Glue.
So we're gonna kick it off by taking a look at Athena.
What is it, why do I want to use it
and what do I need to know about it?
And then we'll see, what is Glue?
Now, why are we talking about two services?
Well, they commonly go hand in hand,
so we'll take a quick look at how we can use them together
to get some pretty powerful results.
After that, we're gonna wrap it all up
with some of those handy dandy exam tips.
So let's go ahead and dive right on in.
So our first question we're gonna answer is, what is Athena?
Well, the official definition is that Athena
is an interactive query service
that makes it easy to analyze data in S3 using SQL.
Now, think about that for a second.
Up until now, we've gone through this,
what can be considered a potentially painful process
of having to transform our data and load it into a database.
What if we could just skip that?
What if we could just query the data
as it sits in that data lake,
as it sits in that S3 bucket?
That's what Athena allows us to do.
Basically, we can talk directly to our data
and we don't have to go through that process
of loading it up into a traditional database.
Now that's pretty cool if you ask me.
So if Athena is a serverless query language for S3
then what is Glue?
Well glue is actually a pretty handy tool.
What it allows us to do is stick things together.
You might have most recently used this in school
where you had two pieces of paper that you needed,
oh, I'm sorry.
You'll have to excuse me, that's the wrong kind of glue.
Now, the AWS Glue is a serverless data integration service.
Effectively, what it allows us to do
is perform those ETL workloads without managing
or running traditional EC2 instances.
So what does that mean?
Well, effectively, it kind of replaces EMR.
What we can do now is simply use Glue
to do that extract, transform load of our data
without having to spin up a huge fleet of EC2 instances
and use third party open source tooling
to transform that data.
Okay, so we're talking about some serverless architecture.
So how would we put Glue and this Athena service together?
Well, the actual architecture diagram
for this is pretty simple, and that's a good thing
because there's very few times in life
when you're building that big data application
and you could use that word simple.
So it all starts off with your data
that's being stored in S3.
Now you have all of this unstructured data,
it's coming from all of these different sources
and effectively you need to put it in a format
that you can then easily query.
If there's no guardrails around what the data looks like,
we wouldn't be able to run those SQL queries
to get us that insight that we need to have.
So you're gonna point Glue at this data,
and what it's gonna effectively do is build you a catalog,
build you a structure for that data.
Now, once that's built,
you actually have a few different options.
Now it is good to know
about the Amazon service called Redshift Spectrum.
It's actually a flavor of Redshift,
and you don't really need to know too much about it
for the exam that you're gonna be taking shortly
but at a high level,
it allows you to use Redshift
without having to load all of that data
into the Redshift database itself.
Now, that's great if you're already using Redshift
but our other option here is to use Athena.
What Athena can do is take that data
that Glue has so nicely structured
and run queries on it without having to load it
into that database.
It would then be very easy to use something like QuickSight
which at a really high level
is effectively Amazon's version of Tableau,
it can help you visualize this data
so you can simply combine storing data in S3,
structuring it with Glue,
querying it with Athena and QuickSight
to give you a dashboard with all of your needed insights.
Now I know,
that was a very quick tour without a lot of depth
in these services,
and that's because on the exam they're only gonna be covered
at a very high level.
We have a lot of other big data content available for you
if you'd like to go deeper on each one of these tools
but for now, let's go ahead
and wrap it up with some exam tips.
So if you're faced with a scenario on the exam
where it's asking for a serverless SQL option,
namely where you need
to query some data out of your S3 bucket,
you wanna think Athena.
This could be data from a BI application.
This could also be login data.
Keep that in mind on the exam.
You can use Athena to query logs stored in an S3 bucket.
So let's take a look at a few more exam tips here for us.
Our first one,
both Athena and Glue are going to be serverless options.
They are fully managed by AWS,
and there's actually very little configuration
that you are going to be responsible for.
This makes it a pretty simple rollout on your end.
We wanna keep these tools at another high level overview
so it's good to know generally what they are.
Athena is serverless SQL, Glue is serverless ETL.
That's about as much as we're gonna have to know
for this particular test.
And they do work together very well.
So while Athena can work by itself,
maybe if you already have that data
that has a structure to it,
Glue can help you design a schema for that data.
So keep both of these in mind.
It's good to know what they do, and it's also good to know
when they are used as distractors on the exam.
And one last tip here for us.
If you're ever cleaning windows,
try using old newspapers instead of rags.
This will leave your windows with a streak free shine.
All right, folks, thanks for going through Athena
and Glue with me,
and I can't wait to see you in the next video.