Well, hello again.
Welcome to this lesson
where we're gonna discuss visualizing data
using Amazon QuickSight.
In this lesson, we're gonna cover a few topics,
including what Amazon QuickSight is.
We'll look at some features and some use cases.
We'll discuss dashboards,
users, and groups.
We'll have a quick overview of an architecture example,
and then we'll go over some exam tips.
Okay, let's go ahead and talk data visualizations
and business intelligence.
Amazon QuickSight is a fully managed serverless business
intelligence, data visualization service that is meant
to simplify the process of creating interactive dashboards.
It allows you to easily share these dashboards
with specific users and groups
and enhance data accessibility and collaboration.
Now, with that understood,
let's talk about some features and use cases.
Let Amazon QuickSight is a great tool for various purposes,
including business data visualizations,
ad-hoc data analytics,
and the extraction of crucial data-driven business insights,
it's a versatile tool for various data related tasks.
The service actually offers extensive integration
capabilities connecting with services like Amazon RDS,
Amazon Aurora, Athena,
Amazon S3, and many others.
It facilitates seamless data access
across multiple platforms.
You need to know the term SPICE.
This is a robust in-memory engine
that excels at performing advanced calculations
and boosting data analysis efficiency.
SPICE stands for Super fast
Parallel In-memory Calculation Engine.
Now, for greater security,
there is an enterprise offering,
which is not free, and it allows the implementation
of Column-Level Security,
which is going to allow for better safeguarding
of specific sensitive data.
Now, for this exam, you really don't need
to be greatly familiar with how Column-Level Security works.
However, if you decide to do the data analytics exam
or a database exam,
you're gonna wanna look into this a little bit more.
Lastly, it is essential to be aware
that QuickSight's pricing is structured on a per session
and per user basis.
This offers flexibility
for different usage scenarios throughout your company.
Okay, let's move on to dashboards,
users, and groups.
QuickSight provides you the capability to create users
for accessing the platform,
and in the enterprise version,
you can also create groups
to streamline user management.
Now, one huge thing to call out here is
that QuickSight users and groups exist
solely within the QuickSight ecosystem.
Do not confuse them with IAM users and groups.
The next point here is regarding dashboards.
QuickSight dashboards offer the convenience
of stored configurations
and filters for a tailored user experience.
Each user can have their own dashboard if they want.
And lastly, you have the flexibility to share dashboards
and analysis results with specific users and groups.
This enhances collaboration and information sharing.
It is essential to call out that shared dashboard.
Users can see the underlying data together.
Keep that in mind.
Now, let's go ahead and take a high level look
at a QuickSight architecture example diagram.
In this example, we have our Amazon S3 bucket,
which is going to contain all of our data
and we want to analyze that
for our business intelligence needs.
We set up some glue crawlers to crawl that data,
and then we also went ahead
and created data catalogs based on all of that crawl data
with the Crawlers within the bucket.
Now, after we've got all of that set up,
we can add the additional portions
to our actual architecture,
which includes cataloging data using Redshift Spectrum,
which remember from earlier lessons uses shared clusters
to process that data without having to actually load it.
And we can also integrate Amazon Athena
with the data catalog, so we can easily use SQL queries
to query the different data in place.
Now, one of Amazon QuickSight's biggest integrations
is actually Athena itself,
so we can actually go ahead
and directly integrate with QuickSight
to build dashboards based on our Athena queries.
This is a very popular scenario on the exam,
so be certain you understand
how they can integrate at this level.
Okay, let's go ahead and wrap things up
with some exam tips regarding QuickSight.
When you're ready to dive into your data,
Amazon QuickSight is a great solution.
If business intelligence is mentioned,
Amazon QuickSight is the name to remember.
The service seamlessly integrates
with various AWS services like RDS,
Aurora, Athena, and S3.
Be sure to remember that architecture diagram
that we just went over.
The service offers pricing options based on per session
and per user usage.
In addition to that, the enterprise edition,
which again is not free,
unlocks advanced features like CLS.
Lastly, you need to know the term SPICE.
Remember that this is a powerful in-memory engine
powering QuickSight analytics capabilities.
Now, that's gonna do it for this lesson
on visualizing data with QuickSight.
We'll end here.
We could take a quick break,
grab some coffee or some tea,
and then we will pick back up with the next lesson.