Hello, Cloud Gurus.
This lesson is on engaging customers with Amazon Pinpoint.
Throughout this lesson, we're going to go over several
things. We'll talk about what Pinpoint actually is.
We'll look at the different features
that go along with Pinpoint.
We'll talk about where we can use it
in our architecture plans,
and then we'll wrap things up with some exam tips.
So, what is Amazon Pinpoint?
Amazon Pinpoint is a service that enables you
to engage with your customers through
a variety of different messaging channels.
So, think things like emails, SMS,
other push notifications, many different platforms
for communicating to your customers.
So, who is this service meant for?
Well, its primary audience is intended to be marketers,
business users, and in some cases, even developers,
depending on the company size.
They want to make it as simple as possible
to engage with their customers.
Now, what are some features of this service?
So, there are things called "Projects"
and these are essentially collections of information,
different segments, campaigns, and journeys.
Now, we'll see some of these terms
here coming up in a minute, so don't fret.
We also have channels, and this is the platform
where you intend to engage your audience segments.
So, how are you engaging with your customers?
Are you going to be emailing them?
Are you sending them text messages,
push notifications, whatever you choose.
There are segments, and these can be dynamic or imported.
And these strictly designate which users are going
to receive specific messages that you send out.
So, you can categorize and group people as you see fit.
Then, there's campaigns,
and these are simply initiatives engaging
specific audience segments using your tailored messages.
So, a good way to think of a campaign
would be a release of a brand new feature
or an application that you want to market to your customers.
It might be a huge feature that's very important
and took a lot of developer time
and will have significant customer impact.
There's also journeys,
and journeys are customized, multi-step engagements.
So within a journey, you might have multiple steps
where you're reaching out to multiple segments
with different types of messages,
and they all make up one or more campaign.
Now we also have message templates,
and this is just content and settings
that are allowing you to easily reuse repeated messages.
So, it's exactly what it sounds like.
Instead of having to carve out those
tailored specific messages manually each time,
you can just generate a message template
and reuse that as you see fit.
And lastly, a key feature here is machine learning.
So, you can actually leverage machine learning models
in order to predict user patterns for future engagements.
This is a key feature, so be sure
to understand you can use machine learning models
to predict future patterns.
Well, where do we use it?
There are three primary uses.
The first is marketing.
So, marketers can use this to promote products
and even services via emails, SMS notifications,
or even just plain app push notifications.
You can also leverage it for transactions,
so you can send messages to your customers
after a transaction occurs.
So, think things like order confirmations
or even shipping notifications.
And then lastly, any bulk communication.
So, you can send messages that are targeted
to millions of people.
Yeah, you heard that right. Millions of people.
So, you can see why this service is effective
for campaigns of new products and services.
Now, let's go ahead and wrap things up with an exam tip.
For any questions that you receive that are related
to marketing campaigns, user engagements,
or even sending emails to targeted audiences,
think of Amazon Pinpoint.
You also want to look out for scenarios
that leverage machine learning
with user engagement predictions for future campaigns.
Now, that's going to go ahead
and do it for this Amazon Pinpoint lesson.
When you're ready, take a short break,
and then we'll pick back up in the next lesson.