Congrats Cloud Gurus.
You made it through this front-end web and mobile section.
Let's go over a few exam tips
so we can reinforce what we've recently learned
and bring that into our exam.
Now, the first thing I want to stress here is, again
very few of these services have been seen on the exam.
The one service we know to be covered is Pinpoint.
For all other services,
We just covered them at a high level,
and we talked about where they could be used
in their particular use cases.
We talked about quickly deploying web apps with AWS Amplify.
Remember, Amplify provides us tools
for simplified front-end web and mobile development.
It's really almost a suite of tools that allow
for easy full stack applications to be hosted on AWS.
The goal of this service is to enable developers
to focus on their coding and not really have to worry
about the pesky infrastructure that goes along with it.
It supports frameworks like React, Vue.js, and Angular.
It also works with static generator tools
like Gatsby and Hugo.
So, keep an eye out from mention of any of these frameworks
or tools when you're thinking about which service to pick.
Now, a really, really, really big feature
that you need to know for this service
is it does support server-side rendering.
An example of a framework or application
that would leverage this is Next.js.
So, while you can generate static sites
with Next.js, server-side rendering is where
it gets its magic, and you can't do that
with a simple S3 bucket.
I know Amazon S3 static site hosting is a popular scenario
for this exam,
but if it mentions server-side rendering,
think of AWS Amplify.
Now let's move on to Device Farm.
Remember, think of using this service for any scenarios
that talk about requiring automated
or manual testing on physical, real phones, or tablets.
It can be used with
different Android and iOS devices, as well
as just simple web applications that you need to test
on those mobile devices.
We then can move on to Pinpoint.
It's important that you understand that
it enables you to engage with your customers
on either a large or a small scale.
It's very flexible.
It is geared more towards marketing teams
and business users, but even sometimes developers, again
depending on the company size.
It allows you to create segments,
and these allow for more targeted messages
and specific audiences so you don't have to just shotgun all
of your messages out to all users.
You can target who they're going to
and what those people see.
And a very big point that I want you to remember
you can leverage machine learning models to
predict future engagements.
This is a key feature
so keep an eye out for it on exam scenarios.
Now, feel free to check out all of the lesson references
which are available at the documentation sites
for AWS.
For now, that's going to do it.
We'll end here
and then we'll pick back up in the next section.