Okay. Welcome back, Cloud Gurus.
This lesson is on quickly deploying web apps
with AWS Amplify.
Throughout this lesson, we're going to touch
on several key points.
We'll first look at what Amplify is.
We'll talk about the services that are offered within it.
We'll look at what is called Amplify Hosting
and then Amplify Studio
and finally, we'll wrap things up with some exam tips.
All right. So what is AWS Amplify?
Well, that is a great question.
AWS Amplify offers tools for front-end
web and mobile developers.
Now, these tools are allowing them
to quickly build full stack applications on AWS.
It essentially handles the burden
of deploying the underlying infrastructure
and it lets them focus on the code itself.
So what is offered within the service?
Well, there are 2 services for developers to use.
The first is Amplify Hosting
and the second is Amplify Studio.
So let's take a look at both of these really quickly.
The first on the list is Amplify Hosting.
3 things that you should know:
The first thing is it provides support
for common single-page application frameworks
like React, Angular, and Vue.
This also supports Gatsby and Hugo,
which are static site generators.
Secondly, it allows developers
to separate production and staging environments
to have different front ends and back ends
which, of course, is huge because you don't want to run
production and staging environments
on the same infrastructure necessarily.
And then lastly, it has support
for server-side rendering applications like Next.js.
Now, a cool thing that Next.js offers
over React and Angular and all those other frameworks
is that you can actually generate static sites
as well as use server-side rendering,
but remember, you can't do server-side rendering
with a static application in S3.
So if that question comes up, think AWS Amplify.
Okay. Let's move on to Amplify Studio.
The first big point is that it allows for easy auth
and in this case, it's both auths.
We have easy authentication and easy authorization.
So it allows you to quickly implement
these controls within your applications
using the suite of tools that are provided.
The next is it allows for simplified development.
This particular service is going to offer you
a visual development environment in order to simplify
creation of your full stack web or mobile applications.
So you can basically do everything within the AWS console.
And lastly, one of the cooler aspects
is there are ready-to-use components.
So when building your application,
you can snag these ready-to-use components,
which allow you to create your back ends easier
or automate connections between the front ends
and back ends.
It really simplifies things
so the developers don't have to get caught up again
with the difficult underlying infrastructure setup.
So let's move on to some exam tips.
AWS Amplify could be an answer for scenarios
that include managed server-side rendering in AWS,
easy mobile development, or even allowing developers
to run full stack applications
with minimal knowledge of AWS.
So if any of those scenarios come up,
you should immediately start looking for answers
that include AWS Amplify.
Now, that's going to do it for this short lesson.
When you're ready, let's take a break
and then I'll see you in the next one.