Okay, hello Cloud Gurus
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture we're going to talk
about converting media files with Amazon Elastic Transcoder.
So, first thing we're going to cover off is
what is Elastic Transcoder?
We're going to look at the benefits
and then we'll go onto my exam tips.
Now we at A Cloud Guru use Amazon Elastic Transcoder a lot
and we always have since it first came out.
So basically it allows businesses and developers
to convert or to transcode media files
from their original source format
into versions that are optimized for various devices
such as smartphones, tablets, and PCs.
So if you're watching this on your phone,
or if you're watching this on your laptop,
or an iPad or something, it's going to look a bit different
from when I first recorded it,
and that's because basically I've loaded this video file
into Transcoder and it's outputted it
so that it's basically optimized for the device
that you are viewing it on.
So that's all Elastic Transcoder is and what it does.
So it's really easy to use.
We have been using it since the service first launched.
So you can set up Elastic Transcoder using the APIs,
the SDKs, or the management console
and it's really easy to get started.
Once you have gotten started,
you can start transcoding immediately.
It's also elastically scalable, so it scales on demand.
So you can use Elastic Transcoder
to transcode everything from small frequent files
to extremely large video files in the thousands all at once.
And it scales depending on your needs.
So basically, it doesn't really come up in the exam yet,
but it might do.
So if you see a scenario question using the word transcode
or if it's talking about converting your media files
to an optimized format for a particular device,
then what I want you to think of is Elastic Transcoder.
So that is it for this lecture, everyone.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free, move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.