Okay, hello, Cloud Gurus,
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture, we're going to look
at how we can analyze root cause using Amazon Detective.
So first of all, we'll look at what Detective is.
We'll look at the different sources for Detective.
We'll look at its use cases, and we'll look at my exam tips.
Now, Detective is basically going to be a detractor.
They might try and basically confuse you
with Inspector or Trusted Advisor.
You basically just need to know what Detective is.
So what is Detective?
Well, using Detective,
you can analyze, investigate,
and quickly identify the root cause
of potential security issues or suspicious activities.
And it basically pulls data in
from your AWS resources and then uses machine learning
and statistical analysis and graph theory
to build a linked set
of data that enables you
to quickly figure out the root cause
of your security issues.
In terms of the sources that it uses,
well it uses a number of sources within your AWS account.
And this can be things like VPC Flow Logs, CloudTrail logs,
Elastic Kubernetes Service, audit logs
and Amazon GuardDuty findings.
And basically it automatically creates an overview
of your users, your resources,
and the interactions between them over time,
which is where you're using graph theory.
So the use cases for Detective:
it basically allows you to triage your security findings.
So if you have a suspected security incident
and you need to be able to quickly assess
whether it's real or if it's a false positive,
basically, Detective will generate the visualizations
that can show you what resources, IP addresses,
and AWS accounts are connected
to your security incident to determine
if the finding is an actual malicious activity or not.
And you can also use it for threat hunting.
So in comparison to root cause analysis,
you can be proactive and go threat hunting.
So Detective helps you with threat hunting
by creating detailed visualization on specific resources,
again, such as IP addresses, AWS accounts,
VPC, and EC2 instances.
So the key takeaway from Detective:
it operates across multiple AWS services
and analyzes the root cause of an event.
So if you see that term, "root cause,"
you need to quickly use graph theory to analyze a root cause
of a security event,
or figure out if it's a malicious activity
or a false positive--we want you to think of Detective.
Do not confuse it with Inspector,
which is an automated vulnerability management service
that continually scans EC2
and container workloads for software vulnerabilities
and unintended network exposure.
So like I said, Detective can be a distractor.
So always just look
for the term "root cause" in your scenario-based questions.
If you don't see that,
then Detective is most likely going to be a distractor.
So that is it for this lecture, everyone.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.