Hello, Cloud Gurus,
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture we're going to look at
authenticating access with Amazon Cognito,
and please really do pay attention during this lecture
because you will at least get one question.
When I last did my exam,
I got 2 or 3 questions on Cognito
and how it all works.
So the first thing we're going to look at in this lecture
is what is Cognito?
We're going to look at the features, the use cases,
going to look at user pools and identity pools.
Going to look at how it works broadly.
And then we're going to look at the Cognito sequence,
which is a key part of the exam.
And then we're going to go onto my exam tips.
So what is Cognito?
Well, basically it provides an authentication,
authorization, and user management
for your web and mobile apps
in a single service without the need for custom code.
So it's basically just an authentication engine.
Your users can sign in directly
with a username and password that they create,
or they can use a third-party
such as Facebook, Amazon, Google, or Apple, etc.
So Cognito provides the following features.
It basically gives you sign-up and sign-in options
for your applications,
gives access for guest users,
and it acts as an identity broker
between your application and web ID providers.
You don't need to write any custom code.
And it synchronizes user data across multiple devices.
And basically Amazon recommend it
for all mobile applications that call AWS services.
So in terms of its use cases
the obvious one is authentication.
This is where users can sign in
using a user pool or a third-party identity provider,
again such as Facebook.
You can also use it for third-party authentications.
So users can authenticate using identity pools
that require an identity provider token.
We'll look at how that works in a second.
You can access service-side resources.
So basically a signed in user is given a token
that allows them to access resources that you specify
and you can access AWS AppSync Resources.
So users can be given access to AppSync Resources
with tokens received from a user or identity pool
in Cognito.
So let's talk about user pools and identity pools.
And these are the 2 main components of Cognito.
User pools are directories of users
that provide sign up and sign in options
for your applications or users.
And then identity pools allow you to give your users access
to other AWS services.
So you can use identity pools and user pools
either separately or together.
So let's have a look at how it works broadly.
We've got our device, we've got our login provider,
we've got Amazon Cognito,
and then we've got the AWS Security Token Service or STS.
So our device basically sends a login request
to our login provider
and then it'll send a GetId request to Amazon Cognito.
And Cognito, what it will do is basically
do a validation to the login provider
to make sure that you are an authorized user.
Once that happens, you send a GetOpenIdToken to Cognito.
It will do validation with the login provider.
And then basically you get an AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity,
which is sent to the Amazon Security Token Service
and that then validates back against Amazon Cognito.
And so we do cover this a lot more deeply
in the Security section of the course.
Don't worry, you don't need to remember
this sequence of events are for the exam.
What you specifically need to know is this.
So step one, you've got an application on your phone
and you're trying to log in and access the resources that
that application is designed to use.
So this could be something like Dropbox
and you're trying to store files up in S3.
Let's use that as an example.
So basically you are using your Dropbox app to log in
and it's connecting to a user pool in Cognito
and you're authenticating and getting tokens.
Once you've got that token,
your device is then going to exchange that token
to an identity pool,
and the identity pool is going to go ahead
and give some AWS credentials.
And then you can use those AWS credentials
to access your AWS services.
So that's all it is. That's how it works.
So your device sends a request to a user pool
that then authenticates and gets a token,
it then takes that token
and exchanges it with an identity pool
and then it will get AWS credentials,
and then you'll be able to access things
like S3 or DynamoDB using those credentials.
So that's what you really need to know for the exam.
So onto my exam tips,
just remember that a user pool is basically
a user directory that provides sign up and sign in options
for the users of your applications.
An identity pool allows your users
to access other AWS services,
and you can use identity pools and user pools
together or separately.
And then, like I said,
you just got to remember this sequence of events.
So you've got your device,
you're connecting to Cognito to a user pool,
you're authenticating and getting a token.
You are then taking that token
and you're sending it to an identity pool.
And that identity pool will then give you AWS credentials.
And then using those credentials,
you can access S3 or DynamoDB.
So that is it for this lecture, everyone.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.