Okay, hello Cloud Gurus
and welcome to this lecture.
This is a really quick lecture.
We're just going to look at what AWS Certificate Manager is.
So we'll explore what it is, what are the benefits,
and then we'll move on to my exam tips.
So what is AWS Certificate Manager?
Well, basically it allows you to create, manage, and deploy
public and private SSL certificates
for use with other AWS services.
It actually integrates with other services
such as Elastic Load Balancing and CloudFront distributions
and API Gateway, and it allows you to easily manage
and deploy your SSL certificates in your AWS environment.
So that's all that it is.
In terms of the benefits, one of the major benefits
of AWS Certificate Manager is cost.
So you don't have to pay for SSL certificates anymore
if you use Certificate Manager.
Basically AWS Certificate Manager provisions
both public and private certificates for free.
And you'll still pay for the resources
that are utilizing your certificates
such as Elastic Load Balancing.
But it means you don't need to go to Thorpe or Verisign
or any of the other SSL providers
and pay for a certificate.
AWS will give it to you for free.
And the cool thing is it actually automates the renewal
and deployment of your certificate.
So Certificate Manager can automate the renewal
of your SSL certificate
and then automatically update the new certificate
with ACM Integrated Services, again,
such as Elastic Load Balancing, CloudFront, and API Gateway.
And it's really, really easy to set up.
So it removes a lot of the manual processes
such as generating key pairs
or creating certificate signing requests or CSRs.
And you can create your own SSL certificates
with just a few clicks in the AWS management console.
So really going into the exam,
all you need to remember is what AWS Certificate Manager is.
You're going to get scenario-based questions
around SSL certificates and what services you should use
to integrate SSL certificates with.
So the supported services are going to be things
like Elastic Load balancer, CloudFront, and API Gateway.
And just remember the benefits
that essentially it's a free service
that saves you time and money
and the cool thing is it automatically renews
your SSL certificates and rotates the old certificates
with the new certificates with those supported AWS services.
So that is it for this lecture, everyone.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.