Okay. Hello Cloud Gurus
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture, we're going to look at what DDoS is.
So we're going to learn what a DDoS attack is.
We'll then look at Layer 4 attacks.
We'll look at amplification attacks.
We'll look at layer 7 attacks
and then we'll move on to my exam tips.
Now, I'm sure you've all heard
of what a DDoS attack is before
but just in case you haven't, basically DDoS stands
for a Distributed Denial of Service attack
and it's an attack that attempts to make your website
or application unavailable to your end users.
And this can be achieved by a multiple mechanisms,
such as large packet floods,
using a combination of reflection
and amplification techniques all by using large bot nets.
So what is a Layer 4 DDoS attack?
Well a Layer 4 DDoS attack is often
referred to as a SYN flood,
and it's called that
because it works at the transport layer, the TCP layer.
So to establish a TCP connection
a three-way handshake takes place
and the client sends a SYN packet to a server.
The server replies with a SYN-ACK,
and then the client then responds
to that with an ACK, or an acknowledgement.
So what should happen?
Well, basically after the three-way handshake is complete
the TCP connection is established.
And after this applications begin sending data
using Layer 7.
So the application layer protocol such as http, et cetera.
So in terms of SYN floods,
a SYN flood uses the built in patience
of the TCP stack to overwhelm a server
by sending a large number of SYN packets
and then ignoring the SYN-ACKs returned by the server.
So it's basically manipulating the three-way handshake.
And this causes the server to use
up resources waiting for a set amount
of time for the anticipated acknowledgement that should come
from a legitimate client.
So there are only so many concurrent TCP connections
that a web or application server can have open.
So if an attacker sends enough SYN packets to a server
it can easily eat through the allowed number
of TCP connections.
And this then prevents legitimate requests
from being answered by the server.
So that's a SYN flood attack.
Moving onto what an amplification attack is.
An amplification attack, or reflection attacks,
can include things such as NDP SSDP, DNS, CharGEN,
SNMP attacks, et cetera.
And this is basically where an attacker may send
a third-party server, such as an NTP server,
a request using a spoofed IP address.
If you don't know what an NTP server is, it just stands
for network time protocols.
The way the internet or way computers sync
up using atomic clock so that they all have the same time.
So essentially you get an attacker sending a third party
server, an NTP request, using a spoofed IP address.
And so what's going to happen?
Well, that server will then respond to the request
with a greater payload than the initial request.
And usually this will be in the region of
about 28 to 54 times larger than
the request to the spoofed IP address.
So it's responding to the spoofed IP address.
And this means that the attacker can send a packet
with a spoofed IP address of about 64 bytes.
The NTP server would then respond
with up to 3,456 bytes of traffic.
And attackers can coordinate this
and use multiple NTP servers a second to
send legitimate NTP traffic to the target.
And that's why basically, as you can imagine
it's called an amplification attack.
So let's have a look at it in action.
We've got the hackers real IP address.
It's 190.1.2.3,
and we've got our victim's IP address
which is 245.1.2.3.
And then we've got our NTP server over here.
So what happens is our hacker sends a spoofed source address
to the destination.
So it's sending the spoofed source address
to the NTP server, and that is 64 bytes in size.
The NTP server then replies back
to the spoofs source IP address, so 245.1.2.3,
and it's sending 3,456 bytes of traffic.
So you can see that's how an amplification attack works.
Moving on to a Layer 7 attack, and this is pretty basic.
A Layer 7 attack occurs when a web server
receives a flood of GET or POST requests,
usually from a botnet
or a large number of compromised computers.
So typical Layer 7 attack will be something like this.
We've got our attacker, we've got a web server,
and we're going to send them a flood of GET requests.
So we're just going to say, "hey, get this page
"get this page, get this page," over and over again.
And that would be done using let's say, a botnet.
We then have our end user
they're trying to access the website, but they can't
because the web server is sitting there responding to all
of these GET requests from the attacker or from the botnet.
Okay, so onto my exam tips.
So just going into the exam, remember what a DDoS attack is
it stands for the Distributed Denial of Service Attack,
and it attempts to make your website
or application unavailable to your end users.
And common DDoS attacks include Layer 4 attacks such
as SYN floods or NTP and amplification attacks.
And then common Layer 7 attacks include floods
of GET and POST requests.
And you do really need to know the difference
between a Layer 4 and a Layer 7 attack
because there's different ways of using AWS to
prevent a Layer 4 attack versus a Layer 7 attack.
And we're going to cover that
off in the next couple of lectures.
So if you've got the time
please join me in the next lecture.
Thank you.