Hello, Cloud Gurus,
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture, we're going to look at
how we can download compliance documents from AWS Artifact.
So I'm going to give you a warning.
Basically, AWS Artifact is probably 9 times
out of 10, a distractor question.
That being said, you should know what it is
so that you can understand when you should choose it
on your exam. So
we're going to cover off what Artifact is, what's available.
I'll show you it in action
and then we'll go onto my exam tips.
So what is Artifact?
Well, basically it's a single source you can visit
to get the compliance related information
that matters to you,
such as an AWS security and compliance reports
or select online agreements.
So what's available?
Well, there's a huge number of compliance reports available,
such as an AWS service organization control,
or SOC reports, payment card industry or PCI reports,
GDPR reports, as well as other certifications.
And this includes things like ISO reports, HIPAA, and more.
So let's go ahead and see it in action.
So here I am in the AWS console.
I'm just going to go ahead and type in artifact,
and you can see that we've got Artifact here.
Do not confuse it with CodeArtifact.
This is AWS's compliance reports and agreements.
You can go ahead
and view your reports or view your agreements.
So I'm going to go ahead
and do my report and I'm just going to type in PCI.
And so here's my PCI, 3DS Attestation of Compliance
or AOC and Responsibilities summary.
So you can go ahead and click on it
and then you could go ahead and download your report.
So onto my exam tips.
It's super simple,
don't stress too much about Artifact.
Like I said, it comes up in the exam quite a bit,
but it's often used as a distractor.
So you simply have to know what Artifact is.
So if you see a scenario question asking
about audits and the need to download compliance reports,
I want you to think of Artifact.
If it has nothing to do with compliance reports
that you need to give to auditors,
then Artifact is definitely going to be the wrong answer,
it's simply a distractor.
So that is it for this lecture, everyone.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture, thank you.