Okay, hello Cloud Gurus
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture, we're going to look at filtering traffic
with AWS Web Application Firewall or AWS WAF.
So we'll look at what a WAF is,
we'll look at layer 7, we'll look at the different behaviors
we can configure.
We'll look at different conditions,
and then we will look at my exam tips.
So, what is the AWS WAF?
Well, it just simply stands for a web application firewall,
and it lets you monitor the HTTP and HTTPS
requests that are forwarded to Amazon CloudFront
or an application load balancer.
And essentially it just lets you control access
to your content.
So using AWS WAF, you can configure conditions
such as what IP addresses are allowed to make this request,
or what query strings parameters need to be passed
for the request to be allowed.
And the application load balancer
or CloudFront will either allow this content
to be received or it will give a HTTP 403 status code.
So some important information about AWS WAF,
it operates at layer 7.
So you are going to get scenario-based questions where it
talks about layer 4 attacks, what should you use,
well you should use Shield in that case,
if you are getting attacked at layer 7
then you want to be using AWS WAF.
So that's the most important thing to remember
going into your exam
if you see any scenario based questions
where it's talking about layer 7 attacks, you want AWS WAF.
And so at its most basic level, AWS WAF allows
3 different behaviors.
So it'll allow all requests except the ones you specify.
It'll block all requests except the ones that you specify
or it'll count the requests that match the properties
that you specify.
So you can define conditions by using characteristics
of web requests such as the following.
So you can do it through IP addresses that the requests
originate from, you can do it from the country
that the requests originate from,
and then you can also do it in the values
in the request headers.
You can do it from the presence of SQL code that is likely
to be malicious.
So this is known as a SQL injection.
So it will say, you know, drop table for example,
or you can do it using the presence of a script
that is likely to be malicious
and this is known as cross-site scripting
or you can do it through using strings that appear
in requests, either specific strings or strings
that match regular expression patterns or regex patterns.
So you can define all these conditions
by using characteristics of the web request
as we've just shown you.
So onto my exam tips,
really the main thing to remember is that WAF operates
at layer 7.
And in the exam you will get scenario-based questions
asking how to block layer 7 attacks,
and I want you to always think of web application firewalls
whenever you hear the term layer 7.
WAF can block layer 7 DDoS attacks,
as well as things like SQL injections
and cross-site scripting.
And if you need to block access to specific countries
or IP addresses, you can also achieve this using AWS WAF.
So that is it for this lecture everyone,
if you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.