Hello Cloud Gurus,
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture we're going to look
at how we can monitor our S3 buckets with Macie.
So what we're going to learn is what is Macie?
We're going to learn about personal identifiable
information, or PII.
We're going to look at automated analysis of data.
We'll look at what Macie alerts we can have,
and then we'll move on to my exam tips.
So almost any business that you deal with now
stores some kind of information about you
on their computer system.
So we have our social networks
who track who we're friends with,
what we like, even our conversations.
But even your local plumber, or your local electrician
might be storing things such as your name, your address,
your credit card information, or even your banking,
either on their local servers
or as more businesses move to AWS they're starting
to store it in the cloud.
And a lot of businesses choose
to store this information in S3.
And in the past, there's been a lot of businesses
who will store this stuff in S3
but then forget to really lock down their S3 buckets
because they are new to the cloud.
And what they're storing is what's called PII,
or personally identifiable information.
So this is personal data used
to establish an individual's identity,
and this data could be exploited by criminals,
used in identity theft, as well as financial fraud.
And this could be things like your home address,
your email address, your Social Security number--
in the UK we call it our National Insurance number.
It could be your passport number,
or your driver's license number,
or it could be your date of birth, your phone number,
your bank account, and even your credit card numbers.
So what Macie does is it gives us automated analysis
of data.
And basically what Macie is is it's a service
that uses machine learning and pattern matching
to discover sensitive data that's stored in S3.
So essentially it's using AI to recognize
if your S3 objects contain sensitive data
such as personally identifiable information,
personal health information, as well as your financial data.
And it's going to alert you
if you have any unencrypted buckets,
and it's going to alert you about your public buckets.
And it can also alert you about buckets
that are shared with AWS accounts
that are outside of those that are defined
in your AWS organizations.
And basically Macie is really great for frameworks
like HIPAA, which governs the way
we store health information in the United States,
as well as GDPR, which basically governs the way
we store personally identifiable information in the UK.
So Macie comes with alerts.
You can basically go ahead and filter and search
for Macie alerts in the AWS console.
Alerts are sent to Amazon EventBridge
and they can be integrated with your security incident
and event management or CM systems.
And they can also be integrated
with AWS Security Hub for a broader analysis
of your organization's security posture.
And it can also be integrated
with other AWS services such as step functions
to automatically take remediation actions.
So that's all Macie is. On to my exam tips.
Just remember going into the exam what Macie is
and what it allows you to do.
So basically it's an automated way
of discovering personally identifiable information.
So it's using AI to analyze data in S3
and it'll look for PII, PHI, and financial data.
It's great for HIPAA and GDPR compliance
as well as preventing identity theft.
Macie alerts can be sent to Amazon EventBridge
and integrated with your event management systems.
And you can also automate remediation actions
using other AWS services such as step functions.
So if you go into your exam
and you see a scenario-based question
where it's talking about PII and how you can prevent this
from being leaked accidentally in S3,
I want you to immediately think of Macie.
So that is it for this lecture everyone.
If you have any questions please let me know,
if not feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.