Okay, hello Cloud Gurus,
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture, we're going to look at
how we can protect our applications using Shield.
So first thing we'll do is learn what Shield is.
We'll then look at what Shield Advanced is.
We'll look at what the costs are.
I'll show you how to turn on Shield Advance in the console
and then we'll go onto my exam tips.
So what is AWS Shield?
Well, essentially it's free DDoS protection,
and it protects all AWS customers on Elastic Load Balancers,
on Amazon CloudFront, and on Route 53.
And essentially what it does is it protects
against SYN or UDP floods, reflection attacks,
and other Layer 3 and Layer 4 attacks.
So that's all that AWS Shield is.
So moving on to AWS Shield Advanced
and what's the difference?
Well, this gives you more enhanced protection
for your applications that are running
on your Elastic Load Balancers, CloudFront,
or Route 53 against larger and more sophisticated attacks.
And it offers always on flow-based monitoring
of network traffic and active application monitoring
to provide near realtime notifications of DDoS attacks.
So if you want to know if you're getting DDoS in real time,
you want AWS Shield Advanced.
It also gives you 24/7 access to the DDoS Response Team,
or the DRT to help manage
and mitigate application layer DDoS attacks.
And it protects your AWS bills against higher fees
due to Elastic Load Balancers,
CloudFront, or Route 53 usage spikes during a DDoS attack.
So if you want to protect yourself against having
an insane bill because you've been DDoS,
you probably do want to turn on AWS Shield Advanced.
But there's a catch.
What are the costs?
Well, we looked at Shield, it came free.
So you don't need to worry about just normal Shield.
But with Shield Advanced,
it does cost $3000 US dollars per month.
So if you're a small startup, maybe you don't need it,
but if you're a large FinTech company
or something like that,
then it's probably worth turning it on.
So let's look at how we can turn on Shield Advanced.
It's super, super easy.
First thing we need to do is just go down to Security,
and you'll find Shield here under WAF and Shield.
Go in and click on that.
In here, it will give you an overview
of the different features for WAF.
If you click over here, you can go
and have a look at getting started with AWS Shield.
And it'll show you basically, global activity
that's being detected by Shield,
so over the last couple of weeks.
And then if we scroll down, it'll give you the comparison
between Shield Standard and Shield Advanced.
Now to turn it on, it's super easy.
You just go back up to the top
and you click in here, subscribe to Shield Advanced.
And you just need to tick those 4 boxes,
and hit Subscribe, and then it will be set up for you.
I'm not going to do that though
because I don't want to spend $3,000 a month
on my test and dev account.
So onto my exam tips.
Just remember that Shield protects
against Layer 3 and Layer 4 attacks only.
You need to remember what Shield is at a high level,
and that it's used to protect against DDoS attacks.
And if you see a scenario-based question
where it's talking about DDoS mitigation
or protection against Layer 3 and Layer 4 attacks,
I want you to think of AWS Shield.
If it's talking about application-level attacks,
that's going to be AWS WAF.
Also, remember going into your exam,
what Advanced Shield is,
it costs $3,000 a month,
but it's going to give you a dedicated 24/7
DDoS Response Team, or DRT.
So again, if you see a scenario question
where it's talking about having a dedicated team
at AWS to respond to DDoS attacks,
I want you to think of AWS Shield Advanced.
So that is it for this lecture, everyone.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.