Okay, hello Cloud Gurus,
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture, we're going to look at protecting VPCs
with AWS Network Firewall.
So first thing we'll do is look at what Network Firewall is,
the benefits, the use cases,
and then we'll go onto my exam tips.
So what is AWS Network Firewall?
Well, I want you to just remember,
if you see a scenario-based question
where it's talking about
deploying a physical firewall to your VPC,
then think of AWS Network Firewall.
So it says managed service that makes it easy
to deploy a physical firewall protection across your VPCs,
and it's managed infrastructure.
So basically, AWS are going to do all the management
of the physical firewall itself.
It includes firewall rules engines
that give you complete control over your network traffic,
allowing you to do things such as
block outbound Server Message Block, or SMB requests
to stop the spread of malicious activity.
So in terms of the benefits,
it has physical infrastructure in the AWS datacenters,
and it's managed by AWS staff,
so you don't have to worry about the management overheads,
but you still get all the goodies
of having a physical firewall.
And AWS Network Firewall works with AWS Firewall Manager,
so you can centrally manage security policies
across existing and newly created accounts and VPCs.
It also provides intrusion prevention system,
that gives you active traffic flow inspection.
So if you see a scenario-based question
where they're talking about IPS,
intrusion prevention systems,
I want you to think of Network Firewall.
So you can filter internet traffic,
you can use methods like access control list,
stateful inspection, protocol detection,
and intrusion prevention to filter your internet traffic.
You can filter outbound traffic.
So you can use Network Firewall to provide
the URL/domain name, IP address,
and content-based outbound traffic filtering.
And this basically can help you to stop possible data loss,
and block known malware communications.
You can also inspect VPC-to-VPC traffic,
and you can automatically inspect traffic
moving from one VPC to another,
as well as across multiple accounts.
So onto my exam tips.
Basically, if you see a scenario question
about filtering your network traffic
before it even reaches your internet gateway,
or if you require intrusion prevention systems
or any other hardware firewall requirements,
I want you to think of AWS Network Firewall.
So that is it for this lecture, everyone.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.