Okay, hello Cloud Gurus,
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture we're just going to review everything
that we've learned in the security section of the course.
So we'll start with DDoS, and we had 3 exam tips.
So just remember what a DDoS is.
It's a distributed denial of service attack,
and it basically attempts to make your website
or application unavailable to your end users.
And common DDoS attacks include Layer 4 attacks
such as SYN floods or NTP amplification attacks.
And then we have common Layer 7 attacks,
which include things like floods of GET or POST requests.
We then had a quick look at CloudTrail,
and what CloudTrail allows,
gives you after the fact incident investigation.
You get near real time intrusion detection,
and you get industry and regulatory compliance.
Going into the exam, you're going to get a whole bunch
of different scenario questions
asking if you should use CloudWatch or CloudTrail
or Inspector or Trusted Advisor.
Always just remember that CloudTrail
is basically a CCTV for your AWS account.
This is going to log all API calls that are made to
your AWS account, and it's going to store these logs in S3.
Moving on to Shield. Shield protects against Layer 3
and Layer 4 attacks only.
Then basically you just have to remember
what Shield is at a high level,
and it's used to protect against DDoS attacks.
And if you see a scenario question that's talking
about DDoS mitigation or protecting against Layer 3
and Layer 4 attacks, I want you to think of AWS Shield.
And you get Shield for free.
But then you can also use Advanced.
That costs $3,000 a month,
but it will give you a dedicated 24/7 DDoS Response Team.
We then looked at AWS WAF, and at its most basic level
it allows 3 different behaviors.
It's going to allow all requests,
except the ones you specify.
Or you can block all requests,
except the ones you specify.
Or it can count the requests that match
the properties that you specify.
So just remember that WAF operates at Layer 7.
And in the exam, like I said,
you're going to get scenario based questions
asking how to block Layer 7 attacks.
So with Layer 7, you want to use a WAF.
Layer 4, you're going to use Shield.
Always think of a WAF, whenever you hear the term Layer 7.
WAF can block Layer 7 DDoS attacks,
as well as things like SQL injections
and cross-site scripting.
And if you need to block access to specific countries
or IP addresses, you can also achieve this using AWS WAF.
Moving on to AWS Firewall Manager.
So if you see a scenario about multiple AWS accounts
and resources that need to be secured centrally
then I want you to think of AWS Firewall Manager.
At this point all you need to know
is what the service is and what it does.
Moving on to GuardDuty, just remember what GuardDuty is
and what it allows you to do.
It uses AI to learn what normal behavior looks like
in your account to alert you of any abnormal
or malicious behavior, and it updates a database
of non-malicious domains using external feeds
from third parties.
And it also monitors your CloudTrail logs, VPC Flow logs
and DNS logs, and your findings appear
in the GuardDuty dashboard.
CloudWatch events can also be used to trigger
a Lambda function to proactively address a threat.
We then looked at Macie, so just remember what Macie is
and what it allows you to do.
Basically, it's using AI to analyze your data in S3
and help you identify personally identifiable information,
personal health information, as well as financial data.
And it's great for HIPPA and GDPR compliance
as well as preventing identity theft.
Remember, you can set up alerts with Macie,
and these can be sent to Amazon Event Bridge
and then integrated with your event management systems.
And then you can also automate the remediation actions
using other AWS services such as Step Functions.
So if you see any scenario-based question where it's talking
about analyzing S3, using AI, or preventing the leak
of personally identifiable information,
I want you to automatically think of Macie.
We then looked at Inspector,
and again just remember what Inspector is.
It's used to perform a vulnerability scans
on both EC2 instances and your VPCs.
On EC2 instances, it's called host assessments.
And on your VPCs, it's called network assessments.
And you can run these assessments once
or alternatively you can run them weekly.
We then looked at KMS and CloudHSM.
So KMS is a managed service that makes it easy
for you to create and control the encryption keys
used to encrypt your data.
And you can start the service by requesting
creation of a customer master key
and you control the life cycle
of customer master keys as well
as those who can use or manage it.
There's 3 ways to generate a customer master key.
First of all, AWS creates the customer master key for you.
The key material for a CMK is generated
within a hardware security module that's managed by AWS KMS.
You can also import key material
from your own key management infrastructure
and associate it with a customer master key.
Or you can have the key material generated
and used in an AWS CloudHSM cluster
as part of the custom key store feature in AWS KMS.
Now, there's 3 ways to control permissions within KMS.
You can use the key policy.
And controlling access this way means
the full scope of access to the CMK
is defined in a single document,
so this is the key policy.
You can use IAM policies in combination with the key policy.
And controlling access this way enables you to manage
all the permissions for your IAM identities
in Identity Access Management.
And then you can also use grants
in combination with the key policy.
And controlling access this way enables you
to allow access to the CMK in the key policy,
as well as allowing other users to delegate
their access to others.
So in terms of KMS versus CloudHSM,
KMS, basically you're using a shared tendency
of underlying AWS hardware.
You do get automatic key rotation,
and you get automatic key generation.
If you're going to use your own CloudHSM,
it's a dedicated physical hardware device
that's dedicated to you.
You get full control of the underlying hardware,
and you have full control of users' groups and keys,
but there is no automatic key rotation.
Moving on to Secrets Manager.
Just remember that Secrets Manager can be used to securely
store your application secrets, your database credentials,
your API keys, SSH keys, passwords, et cetera.
Applications use the Secrets Manager's API
and rotating credentials is super easy,
but just be careful because when enabled,
Secrets Manager will rotate these credentials immediately.
So you need to make sure all your application instances
are configured to use Secret Manager
before enabling credential rotation.
Now you will get scenario-based questions
where it's going to test if you should use Parameter Store
or Secrets Manager.
So that will come up quite a bit.
If you're trying to minimize cost,
you always choose Parameter Store.
If you need more than 10,000 parameters,
key rotations, or the ability to generate passwords
using CloudFormation, then you want Secrets Manager.
Moving on to presigned URLs,
if you see a scenario question where you need
to share private files in your S3 bucket,
think of presigned URLs.
And then finally we moved on to Advanced IAM policies.
So remember, if something is not explicitly allowed
then it's going to be implicitly denied.
And explicit deny always trumps everything else,
so it's always greater than everything else.
Only attached policies have an effect,
so if you have multiple policies, but haven't attached them
to any groups for example, then of course
they're not going to have an effect.
And you can have multiple policies attached to a group
and AWS joins all of these.
Now, if there's any kind of conflict,
like an explicit deny on one policy,
and then an allow on the other policy,
remember that explicit deny will always beat that allow.
And then remember, you've got your different types
of policies, so you've got your AWS managed policies,
and then you've got your customer managed policies as well.
And then finally, we looked at AWS Certificate Manager.
So basically all you need to do
is know what it is in the exam.
You're going to get scenario based questions
around SSL certificates and what services you should use
to integrate SSL certificates with.
So just remember the supported services,
so things like Elastic Load balancer,
CloudFront and API Gateway.
And also just remember the benefits of Certificate Manager.
It is a free service that saves time and money.
You can automatically renew your SSL certificates
and rotate the old certificates with new certificates,
so long as it's with the supported AWS services.
So moving on to continuous audits with AWS Audit Manager.
Basically, if you see a question
about HIPPA or GDPR compliance
that talks about continuous auditing
or automating your auditing reports,
I want you to think of AWS Audit manager.
Moving on to AWS Artifact,
this is often used as a distractor.
You simply need to know what it is.
So if you see a scenario question asking about audits
and then the needs to basically go in
and get compliance reports,
I want you to think of AWS Artifact,
but 9 times out of 10,
Artifact's going to be the wrong answer.
So Artifact's where you go in
and you get your compliance reports for your audits.
Moving on to Cognito to remember what a user pool is,
basically it's user directories that provide sign up
and sign in options for users of your application.
You then have identity pools which allow your users
to access other AWS services.
And you can use identity pools
and user pools separately or together.
The most important thing though,
with Cognito going into the exam,
is understanding the process.
You've got a device, basically it connects to a user pool
and authenticates and gets tokens.
It then basically exchange the those tokens
with an identity pool and that will give it AWS credentials.
And then your device will have AWS credentials,
and it can use those AWS services using those credentials.
So basically you just need to remember
the chronological order of the way it works.
So you have your device,
it connects to a user pool, authenticates, and gets tokens,
then takes those tokens and it exchanges them
for credentials using an identity pool.
And then you can go in and store your databases
in DynamoDB, or store files in S3, et cetera,
so just using those AWS credentials.
Moving on to Detective, again,
it's normally a big distractor in the exam.
Basically, it operates across multiple AWS services
and it analyzes the root cause of an event.
Do not confuse it with Inspector,
which is an automated vulnerability management service
that continually scans your EC2
and container workloads for software vulnerabilities
and unintended network exposure.
Detective is 9 times out of 10 a distractor.
Moving on to Network Firewall,
this is where you'll get scenario questions
about filtering your network traffic
before it reaches your internet gateway,
or you require intrusion prevention systems,
or if you have any hardware firewall requirements.
We want you to think of AWS Network firewall,
especially around the hardware firewall requirements.
And remember AWS manage all the hardware for you.
Moving on to AWS Security Hub.
If you have scenario questions about a single place
to view all your security alerts
across multiple AWS security services
as well as AWS accounts,
I want you to think of AWS Security Hub.
So it's just a single pane of glass
to view all your security incidents.
So that is it for this section of the course.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next section. Thank you.