Okay, hello Cloud Gurus
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture, we're going to look at how we can secure
our operating systems using Inspector.
So the first thing we're going to look at is
what is Amazon Inspector?
We're going to look
at our assessment findings and assessment types.
We're going to look at how it works,
whether or not you have to use an agent or not,
and then we'll go on to my exam tips.
So what is Inspector?
Well, it's an automated security assessment service
that helps improve security
and compliance of applications deployed on AWS.
What does that mean?
Well, basically it's going to inspect your network
and your EC2 instances.
So it automatically assesses applications
for vulnerabilities or deviations from best practice.
So it could be that you've left port 22 open
on your security group, for example.
Amazon inspector will pick that up.
So we have our assessment findings
and basically after performing an assessment,
Amazon Inspector is going to produce a detailed list
of security findings prioritized by the level of severity.
And these findings can be reviewed directly
or as part of a detailed assessment reports
that are available via the Amazon Inspector Console or API.
So there's 2 different types of assessment.
We've got our network as assessments
and this is basically looking
at network configuration analysis
and it checks what ports are reachable from outside the VPC.
You don't need an agent for this.
It basically is just telling you, hey,
you've left port 22 open, what are you doing?
And then we have host assessments.
And the host assessments
are actually vulnerable software assessments
as well as host hardening.
So it's using the Center for Information Security benchmarks
as to how you should configure your operating system
and then also just security best practices.
Now to do a host assessment, you will need to go
into your host and install an inspector agent.
So you do need an agent on Inspector.
So how does it work?
Well, what you do is you go into the Inspector dashboard,
you create an assessment target,
you then install your agents on your EC2 instances.
Now AWS will actually automatically install the agents
for instances that allow system manager run command.
You then create an assessment template.
You perform an assessment run, and then you go ahead
and you review your findings against the rules.
And like I said, it will give you a great report
and it will tell you how severe its findings are.
So Inspector, in terms of going into your exam,
just remember what Inspector is.
It's used to perform vulnerability scans
on both your EC2 instances and your VPCs.
These are called host assessments and network assessments.
And you can run these assessments once
or alternatively run them weekly.
So if you see any scenario-based questions talking
about vulnerability scans and what service you should use,
I want you to think of AWS inspector.
So that is it for this lecture, everyone.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.