Okay, hello Cloud Gurus
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture, we're going to look
at storing your secrets in Secrets Manager.
So first thing we're going to explore is what
is Secrets Manager?
Then we're going to look at what we can store
inside Secrets Manager.
We'll then look at automatic rotation
and then we'll move on to my exam tips.
What is Secrets Manager?
Well, basically it's a service that securely stores,
encrypts, and rotates your database
credentials and other secrets.
It has encryption in-transit and at-rest using KMS,
so it's always encrypted.
It automatically rotates your credentials and you
can apply fine-grained access controls using IAM policies
and it does cost some money, but it is very highly scalable.
So what else can Secrets Manager do?
Well, basically your application makes an API call
to Secrets Manager to retrieve the secret programmatically.
So it could be going in there and trying to get the username
and password to your RDS database, for example.
And this reduces the risk of credentials being compromised
because they're not hard coded into your application.
Your application's actually making calls using an API call
to Secrets Manager.
So what can be stored?
Well, we can store RDS credentials,
we can store credentials for non RDS databases,
and basically any other type
of secret provided, you can store it as a key value pair.
So think of things like SSH keys, for example, or API keys.
Now, it's really important to remember this going
into the exam, but if you enable rotation,
Secrets Manager immediately
rotates the secrets once to test the configuration.
So you might get a scenario-based question where
it's talking about this, you want to enable rotation
but your application might have something hard coded in it.
So essentially you have to ensure that all
of your applications that use these credentials
are updated to retrieve the credentials
from this secret using Secrets Manager.
So if your applications
are still using embedded credentials,
do not enable rotation
because the embedded credentials will no longer work
and this will break your application.
So it is recommended that you enable rotation
for your secrets if your applications are not
already using embedded credentials,
so they're not going to try
and connect to the database using the old credentials.
So, onto my exam tips,
just remember that Secrets Manager can be used to
securely store your application secrets.
This could be database credentials, API keys,
SSH keys, passwords, et cetera.
And applications use the Secrets Manager API to interact
with Secrets Manager.
Now, rotating credentials is super easy
but you need to be careful,
very popular scenario question.
So when enabled, Secrets Manager will rotate
the credentials immediately.
So you need to make sure all your application
instances are configured to use Secrets Manager
before enabling credential rotation.
So that is it for this lecture everyone,
if you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.