Okay, hello Cloud Gurus,
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture, we're going to look at
how we can temporarily share S3 objects
using either presigned URLs or cookies.
So first we'll start talking about privacy,
then we'll talk about presigned URLs,
we'll talk about access, we'll look at the difference
between a presigned URL and a presigned cookie,
I'll show you how to set up a presigned URL
using the console,
and then we'll move on to my exam tips.
So in terms of privacy,
all objects in S3 are private by default,
and only the object owner has permission
to access these objects.
However, the object owner can optionally share objects
with others by creating a presigned URL,
and using their own security credentials
to grant time-limited permission to download the objects.
So when you create a presigned URL for your object,
you must provide your security credentials,
you have to specify a bucket name and an object key,
and indicate the HTTP method,
or get to download the object
as well as the expiration date and time.
And the presigned URLs are only valid
for the specified duration.
So in terms of access,
anyone who receives the presigned URL
can then access the object.
For example, if you have a video in your bucket
and both the bucket and the object are private,
you can share the video with others
by generating a presigned URL.
And this is a very popular scenario-based question.
So if they're talking about you need to share a file
but it's in a private bucket, how can you do it?
Well, you're using a presigned URL.
Now, presigned cookies can be useful
when you want to provide access
to multiple restricted files.
And the cookie will be saved on the user's computer,
and they'll be able to browse the entire contents
of the restricted content.
So a good example of this is a photo template website.
So if you want template pictures,
like pictures of these cookies, for example,
and your users have to basically sign up to your website,
and create an account, and then pay you some money.
And once they have enabled their subscription,
they're then free to download any content they want.
So that's a typical scenario question you'll see.
If you want to give access to multiple files
in a restricted area, then of course you're going to use
presigned cookies.
So let's go ahead and have a look at how we can set up
a presigned URL in the AWS Console.
Okay, so here I am in the AWS Management Console,
I'm going to go over to S3 and we're going to go ahead
and create an S3 bucket.
So I'm going to go ahead and create my bucket.
I'm going to give it a name, something like
acloudgurukroonenburg123, something like that.
I'm going to deploy it into US East 1.
I'm going to leave everything as default,
and go ahead and hit Create, and there we go,
so acloudgurukroonenburg123.
I'm just going to go in there and upload a photo of me
and one of my co-instructors, Faye.
So I've selected the ryanandfaye JPEG file,
I'm going to go ahead and hit Upload,
and that is now uploading,
and now I'm going to go ahead and hit Close.
So in there we can now see I've got my ryanandfaye JPEG.
If I was to click on that,
and then click over here onto the object URL,
of course I'm going to get an error
because by default everything in S3 is private.
So what I'm going to do now, is I'm going to go over to EC2
and I am just going to change my region to London,
because I have a server that's already set up
over in the London region that has S3 admin access
as an IAM role.
So if I click on this instance in here,
this is my instance, you can see it here,
and you can see the IAM role is S3_Admin_Access.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to go ahead
and SSH into this instance.
So I've SSH into this instance, if I just type in
aws s3 and then ls,
I'll be able to see my different buckets.
And then if I type in aws s3 and then ls and then s3
and then it's acloudgurukroonenburg123 and hit Enter,
I'll be able to see my objects in that bucket.
Now if I want to presign that object,
all I need to do is type in aws s3 and then presign,
and then the link,
so s3 acloudgurukroonenburg123 and then forward slash,
and then it's ryanandfaye.jpeg.
And then I could also do expires, and then in,
and then if I enter a number in here, so say it's 3,600,
that will be a 3,600 seconds.
So that will be 60 times 60, which is exactly an hour,
and that is the default value.
So you basically use this to set the time
for how long this link is valid.
And that has now generated this URL.
So if I cut and paste this URL into my browser,
so I've just opened up a new tab,
I hit Enter in here, and there we go,
we can see me and Faye,
there's the object that I've just uploaded to S3.
And I didn't need to do anything to make this object public,
all I needed to do was go ahead and create a presigned URL.
So onto my exam tips, presigned URLs.
If you see a scenario question
where you need to share private files in your S3 buckets,
then I want you to think of presigned URLs.
And they're very easy to generate,
you can do it through the command line
or you can do it programmatically as well.
And then you can also set the expiration date
which is in seconds.
So that is it for this lecture, everyone.
If you have any questions, please let me know,
if not, feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.