Hello, Cloud Gurus, and welcome back.
In this lesson,
we're going to take a quick look
at the AWS DataSync service.
So we're going to kick this off
with the very important question,
what is DataSync?
Where does it fit inside of my architecture?
And then what does it look like
to actually use this service?
And then we'll end it all out
with some of those handy exam tips.
Now as you can probably tell,
this is going to be a little bit of a quicker lesson,
because we really only need to understand
a general high-level utilization of this particular service
for the Solutions Architect Exam.
So let's go ahead and dive right on in.
So what is DataSync?
Well, it's officially defined as an agent-based solution
for migrating on-prem storage to AWS.
It allows us to easily move data between NFS and SMB shares
into the cloud.
So why do I want to use this service?
Well, this is going to be a migration tool.
You've got a whole lot of data on-prem.
You got an NFS mount.
You've got a large chunk of storage
that you want to move to AWS.
DataSync is going to be the setup that you'll want to use
if this is more along the lines of a one-time migration.
So what does it actually look like
to configure and set up DataSync?
Well here we have our on-prem server.
And what you're going to have to do
is install and set up the DataSync agent
as this is an agent-based solution.
Now from here,
you're going to configure the DataSync service
to show where is this data going to go.
Now this is all encrypted
as it's transferred over the internet,
so you don't have to worry
about folks being able to spy and see what you're up to.
That's an important thing to remember for the exam.
Provide secure transmission of your data.
You get to decide, do I want my to end up in an S3 Bucket,
an EFS File System--that shared block-level storage,
or for the Windows folks out there, in FSx.
The big takeaway from this
is that we need to know it's an agent-based solution
and it supports S3, EFS, and FSx.
While actually setting it up
does take a little bit more work
than just looking at a diagram like this,
this is about as much as we're going to have to know
to pass the exam.
Speaking of the exam,
let's take a look at some of those exam tips.
We have a couple of tools that might seem like they overlap.
We've got DataSync.
We've got Storage Gateway.
When do I pick one versus the other?
Well, we need to remember
that DataSync is great for a one-time migration.
If you want to have a more continuous setup,
think Storage Gateway.
Now that doesn't mean
that Storage Gateway can't be used for a one-time migration,
but, generally, they each have their own lane.
Storage Gateway really excels
when we want to setup that hybrid architecture
where we want to take
the on-prem architecture that we know and love
and the AWS Cloud
and staple them together,
where DataSync is great for that lift and shift
and then shut down of that data center.
So a few more tips here for us.
First one is going to be primarily one-time migrations,
that's the use case.
Now, like I said, in the actual world,
it's not as cut and dry.
However, on the exam,
generally we want to focus on that one-time use.
It is agent based,
so you will have to install architecture on your end.
You can't just magically point it to the DataSync endpoint,
because that wouldn't work. (laughs)
You have to have that agent properly set up
and given permissions to then copy that data into AWS.
You will need to be familiar
with the general endpoints
that DataSync can send information to
S3, EFS, FSx,
that's going to be our supported locations
for where that data can end up.
And then finally, high level.
This walk through has been pretty high level,
and it's about as much as you're going to need to know
for the test.
DataSync is not going to pop up in detail.
You're not going to see very in-depth questions
or troubleshooting.
In fact, it might only show up as a distractor.
Just know what we've talked about here so far
and you should be good to go.
Now finally, just a quick note for everybody,
nearly 11% of all bank card pin numbers are 1234.
That's actually kind of scary. (laughs)
It's best to use a random number generator
to create your own
as that gives it much higher levels of security
and a much lower chance
that somebody is just going to randomly guess it.
All right, folks,
thanks for quickly going through DataSync with me,
and I can't wait to see you in the next lesson.