Hello, Cloud Gurus, and welcome back.
In this lesson we're going to take a look
at the AWS Transfer Family.
We have to start off by defining:
What exactly is the Transfer Family? What do they do,
and when do we want to use them?
Then we'll take a look at how we can implement
the Transfer Family inside of
maybe some of our older legacy applications.
And then we'll wrap it all up with some of those exam tips.
So let's go ahead and dive right on in.
Now, what is the AWS Transfer Family?
Well, fun fact, that photo you see on the left
is actually a picture of the Transfer Family.
They might look a little strange,
but I promise they have some pretty cool features.
Specifically, the Transfer Family allows you
to easily move files in and out of S3 or EFS
using Secure File Transfer Protocol,
SFTP, FTPS, or FTP.
Now, if you've never worked with these protocols before,
I wouldn't be too surprised.
They're generally kind of aging out of the tech space
and probably not something that we're going to see
on a regular basis now that we're moving to the cloud
and we have all of those wonderful AWS API calls.
Now, let's take a look and see
how this can work in practice.
So gather round, children, Old Man Galvin
has a story for you.
Back in the day, I worked with a customer
who had tons and tons of legacy users.
Namely, these were different hospitals all around the U.S.
And these hospitals didn't really want to
change their application or change their code.
What they would do is they would take their data
and upload it using SFTP to the customer's endpoint.
Now, the problem for that customer was
they were migrating to AWS.
They're migrating to S3 for all of their storage.
How do they go back and update these thousands of hospitals
without changing every single piece of code,
without changing out everybody's application?
Well, thankfully Transfer Family can handle this for us.
What it allows us to do is basically swap out endpoints.
We can still keep that endpoint
that the legacy users are connecting to,
but basically trick the applications
to read and write data from S3 and from EFS.
Now it is good to know--Transfer Family supports SFTP
and FTPS from outside of your AWS environment
into S3 and into EFS,
but it only supports FTP transfer internally,
inside of your VPC, and that's for security reasons,
because FTP is, well, just not secure.
Alright, well, that was a very quick lecture
because we don't really need to know a ton
about Transfer Family in this particular exam.
All we need to know is the high level.
So on the test, we just want to keep in mind
that the easiest way to change nothing
is with the Transfer Family.
So this really excels when you have
a collection of older applications.
If you see the test talking about anything FTP related,
you should automatically think Transfer Family.
We don't have to change the underlying endpoint,
we don't have to update our application,
we basically just swap out the technology
behind that DNS entry that users are reading
and writing from to be our new Transfer Family endpoint.
And we then trick those applications into talking to S3.
Now, a few more exam tips here for us.
Legacy: Transfer Family excels when you see that word.
When you have an application that you can't change,
but you need to swap out the storage medium
to be something that's S3 or EFS,
this is what you're going to want to set up.
Now it is important to keep in mind those protocols.
They're pretty simple though.
FTPS, SFTP--that's from outside of your AWS environment in,
and then inside of your VPC--FTP.
Now for the DNS entry, those actually stay the same.
We're just swapping out where that DNS entry writes to,
namely, S3, through the magic of the Transfer Family.
And then we want to keep it pretty high level.
In all honesty, you're not going to see a lot of questions
about this service.
Maybe it'll pop up in passing.
It could be a distractor,
so you need to know what it's used for,
but I wouldn't spend too much time diving
into the intricacies of setting this up,
or troubleshooting, or any of those things.
And finally, during an interview, bring a bottle of water.
Sipping water is a good way to stall and give yourself
more time to think about the question.
Alright, folks, thanks for taking a look
at the Transfer Family with me,
and I can't wait to see you in the next lesson.