Hello, Cloud Gurus, and welcome back.
In this lesson, we're going to take a look at moving data
in and out of AWS, using the Snow Family.
The first question that we have to ask
is: how do we migrate data?
Because there's not always a clear-cut answer
of how we make this happen.
So we'll explore and summarize
some of the options that we've talked about
in previous lessons,
and then we'll move into the Snow Family.
And what makes up the Snow Family?
What are those members?
We'll learn about Snowcone, Snowball Edge,
and last but not least, the Snowmobile--
all nicely snowed-themed, of course--
before we end it out with some of those exam tips.
So let's dive right on in.
How do we get data into the cloud?
How do we get data out of the cloud?
These are fundamental questions
that we have been asking for years and I can't tell you,
"Oh, here's the one perfect solution,"
because everybody's situation is going to be unique.
How we've been getting data into AWS so far
is using the internet,
copying data over that internet gateway
to get resources inside of the VPC access to our content,
or just copying data straight up into that S3 bucket.
And it works, but there's potentially a few issues here.
It could be slow.
I think we've all experienced
that slow home internet connection.
Maybe we don't have a very robust channel
in our office or data center,
and it could also be a security risk.
We're using that public networking space,
and that could pose problems with those auditors.
Now, we could use Direct Connect.
It could be faster,
depending on how big of a pipe we're paying for,
and it's going to be secure,
but it's not always the most practical.
What happens if I need to copy
terabytes or petabytes of data into AWS
and then I'm turning off my data center the very next day?
Well, it's not going to be cost effective or speed effective
to just use Direct Connect for a very short period of time.
That's really meant for more ongoing sort of situations.
That's where the physical transfer method comes into play.
Have you ever copied something to a flash drive
and walked it over to your coworker?
Yeah, the old reliable sneakernet.
That's what we're doing here,
but this is really sneakernet 2.0.
We're taking our data,
we're using a physical enclosure provided by AWS,
and we're bypassing the internet altogether.
That brings me to, what is the Snow Family?
Oh, our official definition is that
it's a set of secure appliances
that provide petabyte-scale data collection and processing
and migration and computed... all those good words.
In reality, what it is--
it's just a sack of hard drives that Amazon ships to you.
Some sacks are small, some sacks are large,
varying amount of storage,
and some of these have built in computing,
but it allows you to load up your data,
load up your content,
throw it on the back of your friendly mail carrier truck,
and ship it physically to AWS.
Now, the first part of the Snow Family
that we're going to take a look at is the smallest,
and what I would say is the cutest, the Snowcone.
The Snowcone gives you 8 TB of storage,
4 GB of memory, and 2 vCPUs.
So that's a pretty--
kind of an M style sort of EC2 instance
with 8 TB of storage.
So what do you do with that storage? That compute?
Well, it's really designed for applications
that aren't in a data center.
That aren't even necessarily
by any sort of actual computing infrastructure.
Maybe you're collecting information from wind farms.
Maybe you're one of those techs that has to climb up
to the top of the windmill.
You don't want to haul a lot of stuff up there.
You take the small device, you download your data,
you process it onsite, and when you're ready,
you ship it back to AWS.
It has direct Internet of Things sensor integration,
it works with the AWS IoT platform,
and it's great for those edge computing environments
where power and space are constrained.
Now, if you need more storage
than 8 TB or a little bit more juice
for that computing side,
well, that's where the Snowball Edge comes into play.
A Snowball Edge is a much bigger physical device.
You can still pick it up by yourself,
but you're not going to be climbing up a ladder with this one.
It has between 48 TB and 81 TB in storage.
There's a few different flavors of this,
and it really depends on your needs.
That storage option, well,
it's really a device that focuses primarily on storage.
It has some compute,
but not as much as the compute Snowball Edge.
If you have that machine learning application
and you need an actual physical GPU,
you can get that one built in.
Now, for the exam, you don't have to know the specifics
around the actual numbers
or how much CPU or how much RAM there is.
Just know in general, 50 to 80 TB for Snowball Edge--
that's a good number to remember.
It has that varying amount of CPU and RAM.
It's good to know.
It's perfect for when you're on a boat
in the middle of the ocean.
You got space, you got data,
but you don't have that connection.
It's also great for doing that one-time migration into AWS.
Now, if you need more storage,
well, that's where the Snowmobile comes into play.
This is the heavy hitter, the big one.
This is literally a semi-truck full of hard drives
that drives up to your data center
and downloads 100 PB of storage.
Yeah, let that one sink in.
That is a lot of information that you are moving.
It's designed for companies
that have exabyte-scale data center migrations.
Before I started learning about AWS,
I didn't even know what an exabyte was.
That is more data than I could possibly comprehend,
but some companies have that much
that they're moving to AWS.
It's really cool.
You don't really need to know about it for the exam,
I just think it's awesome.
It might casually show up as a distracter.
You probably don't need this.
Good to know that it's there.
I'd focus the majority of your time looking at Snowball Edge
and to a lesser extent, Snowcone, Snowmobile,
maybe Google that photo of the semi-truck and call it a day.
Now folks, I got to say, unfortunately,
I could not get a Snowmobile to show you in person
so no hands-on demo this time,
but we will end it out with some handy-dandy exam tips.
So how do you transport your data?
Well, there's a variety of solutions.
You're going to have to pick the right one on the exam.
Pay attention to the restrictions that are given to you.
It might say that you cannot transfer the data
over the internet, that you have a large amount of data,
you have a slow internet connection, or very importantly,
the data needs to be encrypted at rest and in transit.
All of these, or a few of these, situations should lead you
to pick an answer that includes a Snowball Enclosure.
Now, a few more tips here for us.
Now, those general use cases.
Like I said,
primarily, it's going to be talking about either storage,
compute, or GPU versions of the Snowball Edge,
but generally know what Snowcone
and Snowmobile does as well.
Snowcone:
small, robust, little bit of compute,
decent amount of storage--8 TB--
nothing to really write home about,
but it's great for space and power constraints.
Snowball: this is what you're going to be using
most of the time.
Storage, compute, GPU varieties.
Remember, about that 50 to 80 TB range
is going to be a good number for you.
Snowmobile:
100 PB,
really cool,
very large truck,
You probably don't need it.
And it's good to know that Snowball, Snowmobile, Snowcone--
they all work in both directions.
You can use it to ship the data to AWS.
You can also use those same devices
to ship that data back to you.
That's important to remember for the test
because I've seen questions that talk about data migration
out of AWS, and Snowball will work for that.
Generally, timing on this
is something that a lot of folks ask about.
Normally, it's about a week.
It all depends, though, on mostly what you do.
If you get that Snowball Enclosure
and don't do anything with it for a couple of days,
obviously that transfer is going to take longer.
If you immediately upload your data to it
and throw it on the back of the mail truck,
you're looking at about a week.
And finally, make sure to keep an emergency blanket, shovel,
and first aid kit in your car.
You never know when you're going to need them
and it's better to be safe than sorry.
Alright, folks,
thanks for looking at the Snow Family with me,
and I can't wait to see you in the next video.