All right, way to go, Cloud Gurus.
You've made it through this migration section.
Let's have a quick run through of some migration exam tips
to reinforce what we've just learned.
Four questions to ask yourself in the exam.
First, where are we going?
Are we moving data from on-premises to AWS,
from AWS to on-premises?
Are we moving between cloud vendors
or even to a third-party SaaS from AWS?
There are many different options
and scenarios that can come up,
so be sure to distinguish what the source is
and what the destination is.
Secondly, how do we get there?
Do we use Snowball devices to do a bulk upload to Amazon
or do we use a migration service like AWS DMS
to migrate our database in chunks?
Building off of that, is it all at once?
So again, do we leverage a Snowball device
to move all of our data in one big move
or do we migrate in small increments using replication
for our servers in AWS?
There are many different ways you can go,
so be sure you understand the true use case in the scenario.
And then finally, is it a partial migration?
So if it's not all at once,
how do we want to partially migrate this?
Do we want to just use a basic S3 upload?
Do we want to use multi-part upload?
Do we want to use a service for server replication
or do we want to just lift and shift everything all at once?
These are 4 important questions you should ask yourself
within scenarios that you see on the exam.
So the first thing we want to talk about is migrating data
with the AWS Snow Family.
What should you know?
Well, firstly, Snowball choices are really going to be based
on how much data you're moving.
It's good to know that Snowballs are perfect
for moving many terabytes of data.
So if you don't want to hog up
all of your bandwidth on your network,
you can use Snowballs instead
and offload that storage migration to a device
and then load that into Amazon S3
by shipping them your Snowball devices.
Now, Snowcone and Snowmobile
are likely not to be on the exam as much as Snowball itself,
but it's good to know just enough of a general overview
for both of these services.
And then lastly, when do we actually use Snowball?
Well, it's best used in situations
where you have slow to no internet.
So think about that scenario I just gave you
about not wanting to hog up all of your network bandwidth
by uploading all of that data.
In that case, you can use a Snowball
to be much more efficient.
Snowball is going to be faster
and more secure in a lot of these situations.
Let's move on to 3 exam tips for Storage Gateway.
The first is a hybrid.
Anytime you have on-premises storage,
think which version of Storage Gateway
could complement this.
So if I need to store my data in S3,
but I also need access to it on-premises
in a quick or easy manner,
think which Storage Gateway would I use?
Another scenario is are you out of space?
File Gateway is a perfect solution
if your local network-attached storage is already full.
Remember, this easily allows you to leverage AWS storage
like you would any other
local network-attached storage device.
And thirdly, it's a VM.
So Storage Gateway is run locally
as a virtual machine on-premises.
You deploy the template file,
you connect it to your storage solution in Amazon,
likely S3, and then you can connect to it locally
within all of your virtual machines.
Now let's move on to DataSync and the Transfer Family.
DataSync is an agent-based solution
that excels at one-time migration of file shares into AWS.
So if you have files that live on-prem,
but you need to shift them all into Amazon
and be done with the on-premises solution,
then DataSync is likely a good choice.
Next, we have EFS and FSx.
These are both viable locations
for DataSync to transfer content into,
and remember which one you would use
for your particular operating system.
That comes up quite a bit.
And thirdly, the Transfer Family is going to allow you
to use legacy file transfer protocols, so think SFTP,
to give older applications the ability
to read and write from S3 buckets.
It abstracts the API calls
and turns it into a legacy file transfer protocol.
Let's move on to moving to the cloud with Migration Hub.
Remember, Migration Hub is an organizational tool
that's giving you a way to organize
all of your migration steps.
However, you will need other tools
to complete the migration.
It doesn't do it for you.
It just helps you organize and track.
The Database Migration Service
is going to be your go-to tool
for any sort of database migration.
It works for both on-premises to the cloud
or for even moving data between different RDS databases.
And remember, it provides you that powerful tool
known as the AWS Schema Conversion Tool.
Lastly, do you have VMs?
If so, Server Migration Service is going to be the tool
that you'll want to use in order to migrate
out of the data center and then into AWS.
Now that we have those covered,
let's quickly talk about the Application Discovery Service.
This is going to allow you to quickly migrate
entire applications to the cloud,
and it does so by discovery.
There's agentless discovery,
which can be used via an OVA template file
that's deployed to vSphere.
You can also do an agent-based discovery,
which uses, obviously, an agent,
and it collects detailed information of your VMs
on both Linux and Windows operating systems.
So just remember, if you need to discover
and collect detailed information,
think Application Discovery Service.
The next service is the Application Migration Service.
Now, this service is commonly referred to as AWS MGN,
and what it offers is an automated lift and shift service
for you to migrate all of your infrastructure
into the AWS Cloud.
What it does is it allows you
to replicate your source servers,
and these can be things like basic VMs.
They can be physical servers.
They can even be Azure VMs in the Azure Cloud.
And it replicates them into AWS
for a non-disruptive cutover.
And remember, there's a very impressive RTO and RPO.
It's an RTO of mere minutes
based on boot time of the operating systems,
and the RPO is subseconds, so it's very fast
and it allows you for immediate recovery essentially.
Now that'll do it for these exam tips.
Per usual, all of the references for these lessons
are available at the documentation within the AWS sites,
and you can see those listed here.
Now let's go ahead.
We'll take a break, stretch, get a glass of water,
and when you're ready,
we'll pick back up with the next section.