All right, welcome back Cloud Gurus.
This lesson is going to take a look at migrating workloads
to AWS using AWS Application Discovery Service
or the AWS Application Migration Service.
Let's take a look
at what we are expected to learn throughout this lesson.
The first thing we'll do is we'll look
at the AWS Application Discovery Service.
We'll talk about the different discovery types that go
along with it, and then we'll move on
to the AWS Application Migration Service
or also known as AWS MGN.
We'll look at the recovery time objective
and the recovery point objectives for the AWS MGM service,
and we'll wrap things up with some exam tips.
So let's go ahead and dive in.
The AWS Application Discovery Service, what is it?
Well, it's a service that helps you plan all
of your migrations to the AWS Cloud
and it does this by collecting usage
and configuration data about all of your on-premise servers.
The cool thing about this service is it's meant to
simplify your migration needs.
It integrates with AWS Migration Hub
which is going to further simplify your migration tracking
and your aggregation of data
for all of your status information
and you can see everything within a single console.
And lastly, it's a service that's meant to help you track,
so it helps you easily view all of your discovered servers,
you can group all of the servers by application
and then you can track each grouped application migration
in the console.
So, how do we actually discover our on-premise servers?
Well, that's where discovery types come in.
Now, AWS Application Discovery Service offers you
2 different types of discoveries.
The first is Agentless, and then we have Agent Based.
The Agentless discovery is performed
via an Agentless collector.
Now, what this collector is
is an OVA file within VMware vCenter.
So if you're not familiar with vCenter and VMware,
an OVA file is simply a deployable file for a new type
of virtual machine appliance that you can deploy in vCenter.
Once you deploy the OVA,
it helps you identify your different hosts and all
of the VMs within that vCenter where you deployed it.
The cool thing about this collector is it helps track
and collect IP and MAC addresses,
it'll collect information regarding resource allocations,
so memory and CPUs,
and then it will even collect the hostnames
and track all of that information
for you to simplify your migration processes.
And then lastly,
it collects a ton of utilization data metrics.
So this is things like peak utilization for CPU, your RAM,
and even disk IO metrics.
So let's talk about Agent Based.
Now, Agent Based discovery is
via a deployed AWS Application Discovery Agent.
What happens is you install this agent
on each of your VMs and each of your physical servers,
and AWS thought this through,
so there is an installer for both Windows and Linux,
so you can install it
on pretty much every operating system that exists
in an enterprise today.
And since this is Agent-Based,
it's going to collect a little bit more information.
It'll collect static config data,
your time-series performance information,
it'll collect network connections, so inputs and outputs,
and it will even dive in
and collect and track operating system processes.
And those are the 2 types of discoveries
that this service offers.
So with the AWS Application Discovery Service
out of the way, let's move on to the AWS MGM service
which is for migrations of applications.
It's important to know
that AWS does sometimes refer to this service as AWS MGN.
Now, the first big point we want to make here is
that AWS MGN is an automated lift-and-shift service
for expediting your migration of applications to AWS.
So the idea of this is to help simplify
and expedite all of your migrations by lifting
and shifting your entire application infrastructure
and translating it to AWS.
Now, what this does is it enables companies
to lift-and-shift
a large number of different physical, virtual,
or even cloud servers
due to the flexible nature of the service.
And since it is flexible, it helps avoid cutover
windows or disruptions when you are cutting over.
Now, a third point here is that MGN
replicates source servers into your AWS accounts.
And when you're ready to go on
it will automatically convert and launch on AWS
to help your migrations go a lot quicker.
So it's replicating to the cloud so you can take advantage
of all of the different benefits that live within it.
So cost savings, resiliency, et cetera.
Now, the 2 key features of this service are RTO and RPO.
So, Recovery Time Objective
which is measured in just minutes
and that's usually dependent on the OS boot time.
And the next thing is our Recovery Point Objective,
and this is typically measured
in this sub-second range, which is insanely impressive.
So due to this RPO, you can pretty much recover
at any point in time after your migration.
Okay, let's go ahead and wrap things up with some exam tips.
We'll first cover the Application Discovery Service.
Remember that this is for application migrations to easily
and quickly migrate them to the AWS Cloud.
It offers an Agentless discovery
which is performed via a deployed OVA file in vCenter,
so this allows for easy migration of your virtual machines.
It also offers an Agent Based discovery
and this is an installable agent that you can put on
Windows and Linux to collect detailed information
of both the virtual machines and the physical host themself.
Then we talked about
the Application Migration Service, or MGN.
Now, this service is meant to offer an automated
lift-and-shift of migrating infrastructure up into AWS.
It does this by replication.
It will replicate your source servers,
so your VMs, your physical servers,
or even other cloud servers like Azure VMs, for example,
and it will move them into AWS for you to choose
when you want to have a non-disruptive cutover.
And then the last thing here is our RTO and RPO.
Remember, RTO is measured in minutes
and usually is dependent on the boot time,
and then RPO is measured in sub-seconds.
Now that'll go ahead and do it for these 2 services.
We'll go ahead and end this here
and when you're ready, we'll move on.