Hello, Cloud Gurus, and welcome back.
In this lesson, we're going to take a look
at moving to the cloud using Migration Hub.
We'll start off with: What is Migration Hub?
When do we want to use it,
and what kind of migrations is it going to help us with?
Then we'll take a look at the Server Migration Service,
commonly known as SMS.
We'll then pivot to database town
and take a quick peek at the Database Migration Service.
From here, we'll get a view
of what does the Migration Hub look like inside
of my console.
And then we'll wrap it all out
with some of those handy exam tips.
So let's go ahead and dive right on in.
So what is the AWS Migration Hub?
Well, essentially, it's a single pane of glass
that we can look through to track the progress
of our application migration to AWS.
It's more of a GUI-based service
that allows me to record and schedule,
and it integrates with 2 of the actual tools
that do the heavy lifting, the SMS and the DMS service.
At first glance, you might say this is just a GUI and it
is--it's an organizational tool,
but it really helps us to track and manage the 2 services
that are doing the heavy lifting, SMS and DMS.
So let's take a look at those tools
and see how they can help us.
So the first service we're going to take a quick peek at
is the Server Migration Service.
So in this imaginary situation,
you have your very expensive,
very robust VMware architecture up and running
inside of your data center.
And you say, "Alex, I'd like to move this with me."
Okay, great.
You don't have to just throw everything out the window
and build it new inside of AWS.
Using SMS, what you can do is schedule when you'd like
these copies to happen.
So what it's going to do is during the scheduled time window,
it's going to take a copy of your underlying vSphere Volume.
It's going to bring that data into S3.
From here, it's going to convert that into an EBS snapshot
and then create an AMI from that.
So in a roundabout way,
what it allows you to do is just take
your VMware architecture and convert it to be an AMI.
And that's really the summary that you want to have
when you go sit the exam.
Now, the second tool that we're going to see here
is the DMS service, SMS's best friend.
So the Database Migration Service kind of does
the same thing, but with the database.
So what is it can do is it can pick up
that ugly, old Oracle database
and run it through the Schema Conversion Tool
and output that data into an Amazon Aurora database.
Now the Schema Conversion Tool has a variety
of different kinds of jobs that it can do,
but its primary purpose is to take Oracle databases
and SQL Server databases and convert them to Aurora.
Now that is a gross simplification of this tool,
but that's what we really need to know for the exam.
The second thing it can do is it can take existing on-prem
or standard RDS or EC2 architecture--
basically a database anywhere--and move it into AWS.
You can use the DMS service
to consolidate multiple databases
into 1 single piece of architecture.
So this helps us as we don't have as many things to manage,
and it also helps us during the migration process.
So you just want to keep a high-level view of SMS and DMS
in your head when you're looking at exam questions
that talk about migrations.
Now let's take a quick switch over to my console
and take a look at the Migration Hub inside of my account.
Alright. So in front of us here is the AWS Migration Hub.
Let's take a look at some of its features here.
Now, when we scroll down a little bit,
we have 2 steps that we have to go through.
We either get started with a migration if we already know
what's happening inside of our environment,
or we get started with the discovery,
because it is vitally important for you to understand
what's going on before you try to migrate it.
So there's a few steps
that it's going to try to walk us through here:
discover, migrate, and eventually track the status
of that migration.
And there's quite a few discovery tools
that we have available here to us.
We have the Discovery Agent here,
and what it's going to do is, well,
you install it on your VMs, your physical architecture,
and it just maps out what's going on inside of that OS--
what packages you have, what services are running--
giving you all the details.
Here, we can deploy this Discovery Connector into
our VMware vCenter to summarize information about our VMs.
That can help us with recommendations when it comes time
to spin up new EC2 architecture, create load balancers,
all of those fun steps.
Now if we take a quick step back to the dashboard here
and click on the button for Migration,
let's go through the process of
at least quickly looking at these tools.
We have the Server Migration Service
that we just talked about that helps migrate our VMs
into AWS as AMIs.
There is integration with CloudEndure,
with some third-party solutions as well.
So it's not just AWS architecture.
And then finally, DMS down here.
Now, you don't have to know these tools in depth,
or really much past just the general overview
of what they do.
I'm going to go ahead and leave it here.
And let's hop back into the slides for some final exam tips.
What we want to take away from this lecture is
that we don't need to do it ourselves.
If you're looking at an exam question
that talks about migration,
just understand which tool you're going to want to use.
We want to keep in mind, DMS is going to be our go-to
for moving databases
and crucially migrating off of SQL Server and off of Oracle
to something on RDS, namely Aurora.
And SMS is going to be the best option for helping us take
those existing VMs and moving them as AMIs into AWS.
Alright. A few more tips here for us.
Now, these tools are magic. as far as the exam is concerned.
I know in the real world,
there's a lot of configuration that you have to do.
There is a ton of steps that we just glossed over,
but those don't really matter
as far as the exam is concerned.
You just get to magically wave your migration wand,
and everything happens for you.
On the exam, remember the Schema Conversion Tool can help us
migrate to Aurora or RDS.
Hint, hint, hint.
We want to migrate off of Oracle, off of SQL Server.
Anytime you see those words pop up on the test,
start thinking about how we can get off of
those database engines.
Now in the real world, you might have more
of a hybrid environment where you leave some things
in your physical environment
and you take some stuff to the cloud.
On the exam,
generally favor scenarios where you're going to migrate
everything into AWS.
And once again, just keep it high level.
Great to know what these tools are.
If this interests you,
please do a deep dive on this content.
Go through, set it up, walk through this yourself.
But as far as the test is concerned,
we just need to know the general overview.
And finally, if your router supports it,
try creating a separate network for your IoT devices.
Things like your thermostat, your light switches,
these have far more security issues and should be isolated
from your primary computing architecture.
Alright, folks,
thanks for taking a look at these migration tools with me,
and I can't wait to see you in the next video.