Hello, Cloud gurus and welcome back.
In this lesson, we're going to be taking
a look at all of the different flavors of Storage Gateway.
Now before we dive into the individual versions,
we have to look at Storage Gateway as a whole.
Why was the service built and how can we use it
inside of our environment?
Then we'll take a look at one of the most popular versions
of Storage Gateway called File Gateway.
We'll see how Volume Gateway can help us with our migrations
of our current virtual machines into AWS,
and then we'll take a look at Tape Gateway
and how we can eliminate those pesky physical tape backups.
And of course, we'll round it all out
with some of those exam tips.
So let's go ahead and dive right on in.
The first question that we have to answer
is: what is Storage Gateway?
Well, Storage Gateway is a hybrid cloud storage service
that allows us to merge on-prem resources with the cloud.
Basically, what it allows us to do
is take AWS and our physical on-prem resources
and just staple them together.
This can be really useful for when we do a lift
and shift or a one-time migration
out of the data center into the cloud
or it can allow for long-term pairings of our architecture.
It's really going to be based on our particular need.
Now Storage Gateway by itself doesn't really get us much.
There's a few different flavors that we have to discuss.
The first one, and the one I'd say
you're going to see on the exam the most,
is called File Gateway.
And what File Gateway does is, well,
it's an NFS or SMB mount
(SMB for those Windows folks out there)--
basically it's a network file share.
You can mount this file share locally
and it secretly, or well, not so secretly
because you've set it up, backs up your data into S3.
Now there's a few different versions of File Gateway
that we can set up.
You can either back up all of your data into the cloud
and it just acts as well, that gateway,
or you can keep a cached copy of the most recently used
files. This means you don't have to download
the recently used content out of S3 if you don't want to.
There's a few different versions of File Gateway
that we can set up.
I could keep all of my data locally on-prem
and back it up into AWS, specifically into S3,
or I could keep the most recently used copies
of my files on-prem and keep everything else inside of S3.
The scenario that you're going to run into on the test
is going to be one where the user, or users,
don't have enough on-prem storage space
and your solution is going to be set up
a cached file gateway.
This allows those users to extend on-prem into the cloud.
You get all the benefits of having the data physically
on-prem and all of the benefits
of having it backed up in S3.
This can help with migrations as well.
If you're working to move network file shares into AWS,
you can set this up and have it run for a bit.
Or have it run permanently,
if you're looking for more of that hybrid solution.
Now, when we say set this up,
it is important to know--
all of these Storage Gateway solutions are simply VMs
that you're going to run inside of your on-prem environment.
These VMs are provided by AWS.
Let's take a little bit of a shift away
from those network files shares into those volumes.
Now you've got all of those virtual machines
that are running on-prem,
how do we back up those drives into the cloud?
Well, that's where volume gateway comes into play.
So this is an iSCSI mount, meaning it's going to be backing
up those disks that those VMs are currently reading
and writing to.
You have that same cached or stored mode,
depending on how much data you want to keep locally.
But the important part is it's all backed up inside of S3.
Now, from here, you can easily create
those EBS snapshots and restore volumes inside of AWS.
So what we can think of this as is an easy way to migrate
those volumes from on-prem to become EBS volumes
inside of AWS.
Once again, this is another solution
that's great for backing up content,
or if you're looking for the migration,
this can help bridge that gap.
Now the last, and what I'd say is my favorite,
is Tape Gateway.
Tape Gateway allows you to skip
having to physically deal with tapes.
Yeah, I've been there.
If you have too, you can probably relate.
Swapping out tapes every week in your backup devices
is not very much fun.
Now, we can set up Tape Gateway and basically trick
those backup devices into thinking
that they're backing up to physical tapes, but they're not.
They're backing up to Tape Gateway.
That takes your data and stores it inside of AWS.
Stores it inside of S3 Glacier, Glacier Deep Archive,
depending on where you'd like to put it.
You don't have to change any of your current settings
or any of your current backup workflows, right?
This is directly integrated as a VM on-prem
and just like I said,
tricks those backup services into thinking
that they're backing up to a tape.
It's encrypted, it's safe,
so you don't have to worry about transmitting
all of that sensitive data in plain text over the internet.
So on the exam, what specifically do you have to know?
Well, we want to focus on Storage Gateway
being a hybrid solution.
It's good for data migration,
but it really excels for when you're going to have
that data center and the cloud stapled together.
So when you're looking at migration questions,
think: which version of Storage Gateway
is going to be the right answer?
Do I need to keep my content cached?
Do I need to migrate all of it?
So when these hybrid storage scenarios come up,
keep Storage Gateway in mind.
You want to be thinking through all of the things
we've talked about, which version of Storage Gateway
makes sense in the given situation.
Let's take a look at a few more exam tips.
You just need to know the general use cases,
the high-level version of,
oh, the NFS service is out of storage? Great.
We're going to set up File Gateway.
Oh, I'm daring to deal with tape backups?
We're going to use Tape Gateway.
Out of space on-prem?
Which Storage Gateway solves this issue?
This is going to be a common problem that you run into,
and based on the type of storage that it is,
that will point you to the right Storage Gateway solution.
While I love Tape Gateway,
it's probably not going to come up as often.
I'm not saying that you can just skip it
or somehow erase the last 20 seconds out of your mind
where we talked about it.
It's good to know that it's there.
It might be a distractor,
but the primary focus on the exam
is going to be on File Gateway and Volume Gateway.
And in the many times that I've taken the exam,
I've primarily seen the focus on File Gateway.
Now that doesn't mean you have to know how to configure
the VM or set it up or troubleshoot it.
You just need to know the general scenarios.
As this sort of topic is going to be pretty high level.
And finally, filling your car tires
with nitrogen can help them from deflating as quickly.
Alright folks, thanks for going
through Storage Gateway with me,
and I can't wait to see you in the next video.