Okay, hello gurus.
In this lesson,
we're gonna look at auditing our AWS accounts
using Trusted Advisor.
In this lesson, we're gonna cover what Trusted Advisor is.
We'll have an overview of the service,
we'll talk about the different categories that are checked.
We'll have an in console demo to see what it looks like,
and then we'll go over some exam tips.
So what is AWS Trusted Advisor?
This is a fully managed auditing tool
that looks at your entire account for best practices.
It inspects your environments or
otherwise known as your account,
and it makes different recommendations
whenever it sees opportunities for saving money,
improving availability,
or even really helping close important security gaps.
Now for this service,
there are several key concepts
you need to know regarding it.
The first is that it uses industry
and customer established best practices
in order to check your AWS accounts.
So it uses this ever-growing library
of these different standards.
It checks your accounts and it says whether you meet
or you do not meet those objectives.
It is very important to note
that this works at an account level.
It requires nothing else but the service itself.
In other words, it's not looking at your entire resource
configurations specifically,
it's only doing an account level scan.
Now, there are different support levels.
Basic and developer are going to come
with all checks in the service limits category,
which we'll check later, but only six checks in
the security category.
However, if you have business enterprise on-ramp
or enterprise support,
you get 100% full access to all checks.
In addition to that, you also get full integration
with Amazon Event Bridge, so you can go ahead
and trigger certain responses and alerts.
Now moving on, let's talk about the categories you need
to be familiar with what these are.
The first is cost optimization.
These are going to be recommendations
where Amazon Web Services think
that you can actually be saving money with your account.
So it might be inappropriately sized instances
on used storage, et cetera.
The next is performance.
These are going to check where
and how you can improve things like your speed,
your efficiency, and even your responsiveness
of your resources hosting your applications.
We also have security.
In other words, how are you able
to alter your settings in your account
to secure the account better?
These really help maintain a much stricter security posture
and they're provided automatically.
Next is fault tolerance.
So what can be done with our architectures
to help increase things like resiliency
and even high availability?
And then lastly, we have service limits.
This is going to essentially check the usage
of your accounts for your different resources
and let you know when you're approaching specific service
limits for those services and those resources.
So things like VPC Count, for example.
Okay, let's do this.
Let's jump into the Sandbox account.
We're going to look at the trusted advisor checks,
and then we'll jump back in here for some exam tips.
Okay, welcome back Gurus.
We're in my AWS Sandbox environment.
Let's go ahead and check out Trusted Advisor.
Okay, so I have loaded Trusted Advisor,
and when we get here, we land on the recommendations screen.
Now, as you can see,
this dashboard offers you a check summary,
potential savings,
and then some other small lists of recent changes
that have occurred in the account.
So as we expected,
Trusted Advisor is advising recommendations
for us based on the resources in this account.
Now, this Sandbox account is part
of an enterprise support system,
so we get access to all of the checks here.
So let's just poke through each of these categories.
We won't get too far into them,
but I wanna show you some of the recommendations
that go along with them if they are there.
So first is cost optimization.
And you'll notice the different findings that are there.
So the green ones are obviously okay,
but we do have a warning,
which is saying,
"Hey, this investigation is recommended
for this particular finding."
And when we scroll down here,
it's gonna show you the volumes
that fall under this underutilized EBS volumes advisory.
So it gets pretty detailed.
Now, next up, we have performance.
Under performance, we have no problems,
but you can see some of these checks
that go along with this.
Under-provisioned, we can look at provision IOPS,
Lambda under-provision functions, et cetera.
So these are just a series of checks related to performance
for our resources in the account.
Now remember, this doesn't get into
the resources themselves,
for instance, EC2,
it's only looking at how you've configured them
from the AWS side of things.
So for instance, the instance type and the different size,
and then how utilized that is based on metrics
that are being collected.
The third we have is security.
Now in security, this is a Sandbox account,
so I'm not surprised.
We have a lot of recommendations
and actions that we should take.
Let's just look at one really quick example here
regarding this first finding.
EC2 instances should use the newest metadata service.
So if I open this up and I scroll down,
you can see it's listing the actual instances,
the region, the arms,
and then the time that they were last
updated with this finding.
So one of these is good, the other is not.
So we could use this finding to go in,
locate this instance,
and then maybe reconfigure it, et cetera.
Now, one thing I did wanna show here,
if I scroll up and I collapse,
you can actually filter
based on the different types or categories.
So I can do actions recommended.
And if I scroll through here,
you're gonna notice there are 10 actions now.
So we can use this filter
to quickly filter based on those recommendations.
Now next step is fault tolerance.
So remember, this is gonna see
how we can increase availability and redundancy.
So you'll notice right now we have three recommended
and one that you really should look into.
The fifth category is service limits.
Now, service limits,
remember, is going to check at how close you are
compared to the service quota
for a particular service and resource.
So for instance, checking usage for more than 80%
of autoscaling group limits,
cloud formation stack limits,
capacity unit limits, et cetera.
So these are all service limit related findings,
and obviously in this account we have no problems.
And then the last one here,
the last category,
operational excellence.
So how can we improve our operational readiness,
like they say, of our resources?
Now, this was just from an experimental
VPC that I made earlier.
We're not going to look at it because it doesn't exist,
but it's just saying, "Hey, our VPC flow logs created
for the VPC, because that's a best practice."
So you can monitor and analyze your networking traffic.
Now that's gonna do it for this short demonstration
on Trusted Advisor.
Let's go ahead and wrap things up here
and we'll jump back into the presentation
where we will wrap things up with some exam tips.
Okay, welcome back.
Let's go over some exam tips before we move on.
Remember, AWS trusted advisor leverages
established industry best practices
whenever it's checking your AWS accounts.
It's important to note this works at an account level.
In other words, it makes recommendations based
on the entire account.
Remember the five categories that go along with it,
cost optimization, performance,
security, service limits,
and even fault tolerance.
Remember what each of those actually cover.
Understand that basic and developer support
only come with limited free checks.
However, the enterprise offerings are going
to grant full access to every check.
They also enable event bridge automation as well.
My advice for this exam is to remember some
of the high level checks that are available for you
to use in addition to just what this overall service does.
Now that's gonna be it for this exam tips portion
of this lesson on Trusted Advisors.
So let's go ahead and end this lesson here
and then we'll pick back up with the next one.