Hello, Cloud Gurus.
Welcome to this lesson:
Enforcing Account Governance via AWS Control Tower.
Throughout this lesson,
we're going to cover a number of things.
We'll talk about what Control Tower is,
we'll look at features and terms
that you should be familiar with,
we'll explore what are called guardrails,
we'll take a look at an example diagram,
and then we'll wrap things up with some exam tips.
So, first thing's first, what is this service?
AWS Control Tower offers you a straightforward way
to govern AWS multi-account environments.
It's essentially an orchestration service
that automates account creation
and then helps you implement security controls
using other AWS services, like AWS Organizations,
AWS IAM Identity Center, and AWS Config.
Now, it's an extension or offers extensions
to AWS Organizations.
It allows you to prevent governance drift
and leverages different guardrails,
which we'll touch on here in a little bit.
So for new AWS accounts, admin users
can provision these new accounts very quickly
and in an automated fashion using
central administrative established compliance policies.
So using what is called Account Factory,
which is essentially a template for new accounts,
Cloud Admins can monitor all account usage
and make sure they are all aligned
and falling within the established guidelines
for company-wide compliance policies.
And in short, simple terms, it's the quickest way to create
and manage a secure compliant multi-account environment
based on best practices.
These best practices have been established in the Cloud
by working with thousands of other enterprises.
What are some features and some terms
that you should know for this exam?
The first is landing zone.
Now, this is a well architected, multi-account environment
based on compliance and security best practices.
It's essentially a container
that holds all of your organizational units,
your accounts within those OUs,
and users and other resources
that you want to enforce compliance on.
The beauty of a landing zone is that it can scale to fit
whatever needs you need for the size of your company.
Next, we have guardrails.
Now, guardrails are high level rules
that provide continuous governance
for your AWS environments.
There are 2 different types that exist:
preventative and detective.
Now, we will dive into these a little bit deeper later on.
Just understand what the term is for now.
We also have account factory.
We briefly touched on this,
but it's a configurable account template
for standardizing pre-approved configurations
for new AWS accounts.
So this is where you would standardize
and implement compliance policies for new accounts.
The next is a CloudFormation StackSet.
Now these are automated deployments of templates
that deploy repeated resources for governance.
So generally, the management account would deploy a StackSet
to either an entire organizational unit
or the entire org itself
using repeatedly deployed resources,
so things like config rules, for instance,
so that you don't have to manually
keep track of this governance in the accounts.
We also have shared accounts.
Now, the shared accounts are 3 accounts
used by Control Tower, 2 of which are created
during the landing zone creation period.
So let's move on.
What are guardrails?
Well, like we said, these are high level rules,
but they're written in plain language
to provide ongoing governance.
There are 2 different types.
We have preventative and we have detective.
So preventative versus detective.
What does one do that the other doesn't?
Well, preventative rules ensure
that accounts maintain governance
by actually disallowing violating actions.
And it does this by leveraging
service control policies in AWS organizations.
Now for these guardrails,
they have statuses of being enforced or not enabled.
And they are supported in all regions,
and that's because they leverage the SCP capability
within organizations in our AWS environments.
So, then what does detective do?
Well, these detect and then alert
on non-compliant resources within all accounts.
And since this is more detective
instead of remediating things, you might have guessed
that it leverages AWS config rules.
Remember, AWS Config can alert,
but it doesn't do any actual remediation
unless you leverage other resources,
like Lambda, for example.
Now, the statuses for detective guardrails
are clear, in violation, or just not enabled.
The other thing about these is that they only apply
to certain regions, and that's only going to work
in regions that are supported by Control Tower,
which is not every region currently.
So let's take a look at an example diagram
so we can get a better view into how Control Tower operates.
We start off with our management account,
and we have organizations
and then we have AWS Control Tower enabled.
Now, initially, AWS Control Tower
is going to create a log archive account for us
and an audit account,
and you'll see examples of what go each here in a moment.
So these 3 accounts at the top here in the diagram
are considered the shared accounts.
And let's just assume
we have 3 AWS accounts that are member accounts
and they belong to our team organizational unit.
Well, AWS Control Tower is going to first
place preventative guardrails into each account.
So it's going to put an SCP
in every account that exists within our OU.
It's also going to place AWS config rules
or detective guardrails in each account as well.
After that, it's going to set up CloudTrail logging
in all of these accounts, as well as notifications
for any governance violations that may occur.
So all of our config and CloudTrail logs get aggregated
and sent to the log archive account where you can view them
and do whatever you need to do on the backend.
So you might need to send them to some log analysis software
or have security do some type of analysis.
It's really up to you, but with the shared account
known as the log archive account,
it allows you to centralize all of this logging.
Now, any governance notifications that occur
will be sent to an audit account,
so this is configuration events,
security notifications, or drift notifications.
And they go to an SNS topic in the audit account
which you can use to alert the correct team.
So maybe a security operations team, for example,
so that they can go ahead and set up some type of automation
or remediation based on the incoming event.
Okay, that's going to do it.
Let's go ahead and move on to some exam tips
and then we can wrap things up.
The first thing I want you to remember
is anything related to governance
and automating account setup.
AWS Control Tower gives you an easy way to set up
and maintain governance in multi-AWS account environments.
It does this by offering
an automated account deployment method
using preconfigured compliance rules.
Remember there are 3 shared accounts.
There's a management account, a log archive account,
and an audit account.
We have preventative guardrails,
which leverage service control policies
to actually prevent actions,
and we have detective guardrails,
and these leverage config rules
to detect and alert on violating actions or changes.
Some keywords and scenarios to look out for
are anything related to automated multi-account governance,
guardrails, account orchestration,
and even governing user account provisioning.
And user account provisioning here means
a user actually provisioning an AWS account.
Okay, that's going to do it.
I hope you learned a lot about AWS Control Tower.
We'll go ahead and wrap things up here
and then we'll move on whenever you're ready.