Welcome back gurus.
In this lesson we're gonna look at exploring cost,
using a service known as Cost Explorer.
In this lesson, we're gonna cover a few things.
We'll talk about why you should budget,
what is Cost Explorer,
we'll discuss some of the features in there,
we'll look at a monthly cost example snippet,
and then we'll have some exam tips.
Alright, so why budget?
Well, cost optimization is part
of the well architected framework.
Being able to budget appropriately
using these different services together,
like Cost Explorer and AWS Budgets,
allows you to get a finer grained control
over what you're spending in the cloud.
You don't wanna overspend, trust me.
While Cloud offers the ease of spinning up
and spinning down resources,
it's a very common scenario to see
that companies and teams
accidentally leave things running,
and they don't know where the bill's coming from.
All of a sudden they have a bill for thousands of dollars
and they don't even know why.
Well, that's where Cost Explorer comes in.
Cost Explorer is going to be an easy to use tool,
that allows you to go ahead and visualize,
and then even analyze at a granular level,
your different cloud costs in your accounts.
The cool thing about this service,
is you can leverage it to generate
custom reports that you get to base
on a variety of factors.
One of the big common scenarios,
is including resource tags for generating reports.
One of the other neat things here,
is that you can break down the cost bi-monthly,
hourly, and even more.
There's a lot of flexibility
on generating your reports and looking at your data.
The last point here, which is huge,
is that Cost Explorer has a built-in
forecasting algorithm that it uses,
and it will forecast up to 12 months in advance.
It does this by estimating
based on current usage and potential future usage.
Now, we don't have insights to
what the algorithm does exactly,
but you can view the output of it,
via forecasted spend in this service.
Now let's talk about some features.
The first feature is time.
Now this is self-explanatory,
and you're specifying what time,
or time period you want to cover for your reports.
The second is a filter.
So where is the spend actually coming from?
Do you wanna filter on tags,
categories of services, account IDs, et cetera.
And then lastly, we have service.
This allows you to easily break down the cost
based on service by service options.
So you can look and see,
"Hey, how much is Lambda costing me
compared to my overall bill?"
Or even more advanced than that,
you can look at data transfer out charges.
There's a lot of different
capabilities built into this service.
Now moving on, let's look at a snippet of a cost example.
Unfortunately, we don't have access
to Cost Explorer in our sandboxes,
so the best I could do is take a personal snippet
from a different account,
and then paste it in here
so you can see what it looks like.
You'll notice here at the top right,
we have the date range and the granularity.
So I set the last six months as the date range,
I set the monthly for granularity,
so it's breaking it down per month.
And then I can do service filters.
So if I wanted to, you can notice all of the different
services in this breakdown, route 53, KMS, S3, et cetera.
And under services, I could actually filter
based on the services that are showing up,
so I can get a more detailed view of just that service.
It also offers an organization's account view.
So if you're in consolidated billing,
Cost Explorer by default would include
all of the accounts within your org.
But luckily for us,
we can use this linked account filter
to choose the different linked accounts
that we want to view.
So maybe you just want to view
one or two accounts out of the hundred
of accounts that you manage.
You can do that using this filter.
And then at the bottom are the other filters.
I'm not gonna get too in depth with these.
You really need to explore them to understand how they work.
But you'll notice we have cost category,
tags, usage type, et cetera.
Now the usage type and instance type stuff
will change based on the service you choose.
So that's the only reason I don't cover 'em.
They get way too in depth,
and you really don't need to know them for this exam.
Just understand you can use these filters,
and these different views to go ahead
and get the exact view that you want.
Okay, let's go ahead and have some
exam tips before we move on.
You need to watch for any answers that use Cost Explorer
whenever the question is about budgeting
and controlling spend.
It works hand in hand with AWS Budgets.
Second, use tags.
Seriously, tags are one of the most most important ways,
and one of the best ways that you can track your spend.
Cost Explorer and AWS Budgets,
like we mentioned earlier, go hand in hand.
Really use these together
to generate accurate reports,
and accurate budget spend.
Remember that Cost Explorer can forecast
spending up to 12 months using an AWS internal algorithm.
You also need to know and remember,
that you can view things hourly or monthly,
or even longer than that.
Remember in the example,
we looked at the last six months.
And finally, if you're part of an organization,
and you have consolidated billing in place,
the payer account can
break down costs per linked account.
So you can see just one or two accounts
out of your entire organization
using that linked account view.
Alright, that's gonna do it
for this lesson on Cost Explorer.
If you have access to it,
I highly recommend you play around with it.
You can get very detailed with your different reports,
and it's pretty interesting to see some of the costs
that are occurring in your account.
For now, let's go ahead and end this.
And when you're ready,
we'll pick back up with the next lesson.