Hello again.
In this lesson we're gonna look
at inventory management using AWS Config.
In this lesson, we're going to cover several topics.
We're gonna touch on what Config is.
We'll discuss how it's used
to monitor the state of your architecture.
We'll discuss Config rules and remediations.
We'll look at alerts and events.
We'll have a quick in-Console demo,
and then we'll wrap things up with some exam tips.
All right, what is AWS Config?
AWS Config is a valuable service provided by AWS
that serves as an inventory management
and control tool for your infrastructure.
It enables you to maintain a historical record
of the configuration changes
that are made to your resources over a period of time.
This allows you to gain visibility into the evolution
and history of your resources.
You are able to define
and create rules within Config
to ensure that your resources adhere
to specific compliance and configuration requirements.
Now, the service natively integrates with Amazon SNS,
and it allows you to receive notifications
and alerts when specific resource configurations change
or do not comply with your defined rules.
Now, a critical topic for the exam
is that this service is configured on a per region basis.
What this means is you must enable it independently
in each region
where you have resources that you need to record.
And lastly, the service provides the capability
to aggregate all of your configuration data
and compliance information across multiple regions
and even across multiple accounts.
This allows you to really gain a view
of your infrastructure's overall compliance
and status at an entire organizational level.
Moving on, let's discuss three key facts about using Config
to monitor the state of your architectures.
First, using this service allows you
to easily discover the different architecture components
that are being ran within your accounts.
What's neat about this
is that you can actually query based on resource type,
based on tags,
and even based on deletion of infrastructure resources.
You can use what are known as rules
that can be created to flag
when something is actually going wrong
compared to how you want your baseline infrastructure
to actually be configured.
Whenever one of these rules gets violated,
you can actually have it alert a team via SNS.
You can have it automatically remediated
using SSM Automation documents,
and you can even leverage Lambda functions
to help perform the automation.
And the last point here,
you can use this service
to check the history of your environments.
In other words, you can see when something changed
and who actually made that change.
Now, let's talk about Config rules in a bit more detail.
AWS provides a set of predefined managed Config rules
that cover common best practices
and specific compliance checks.
These rules are ready for you to use right away,
and they help ensure your resources adhere
to standard configurations based on AWS best practices.
In addition to AWS-managed rules,
you can create custom Config rules
that are tailored to your specific requirements.
These custom rules actually allow you to define
and evaluate resource configurations according
to your organization's unique standards.
Config rules are evaluated either on a schedule,
like daily, hourly, or weekly,
or they can be based on a trigger.
And a trigger is initiated by a configuration change event.
What this means is that rules
can be set to trigger evaluations
whenever a resource's configuration changes,
or on your own specific schedule.
It's very flexible.
An example of a change event could be something
like someone changing AVPC security group's inbound rules.
It is very, very important to understand:
AWS Config is a monitoring and assessment tool.
It is not preventative.
What that means is it is only meant
to provide visibility and alerting
in to resource Config changes.
It's used to detect non-compliance,
and it can alert you for other deviations.
However, it will not prevent configuration changes.
Please understand this.
And finally here, while AWS Config is a valuable service,
it is not a free service.
You are billed based on the number
of configuration items you're recording
and the number of rules that are enabled.
Please keep that in mind.
Now, moving on,
let's talk about remediating Config findings.
Remember that AWS Config enables automatic remediation
of non-compliant configurations.
You can use Systems Manager Automation Documents
to be ran whenever a non-compliant resource is detected.
The Automation Documents that get used
can be either AWS-managed,
or they can be custom documents created by you.
AWS does provide a range of built-in Automation Documents
to address common remediation tasks.
For more complex
or custom remediation tasks,
you can create your own documents
that also leverage Lambda functions.
These Lambda functions can execute specific logic
to correct your resource configurations.
And in case an automatic remediation attempt fails,
Config does provide the option to enable a retry.
This ensures that the systems
will continue to attempt remediation
until that non-compliant configuration is corrected.
Now, please keep all of this information in mind
when you're having to choose automatic-remediation efforts
for Config on the exam.
Moving on, let's look at alerts and events.
Now, this is a slight review, but it is important to know.
AWS Config easily integrates with SNS topics
to send notifications and alerts
when configuration changes,
or compliance state deviations get detected.
You can configure your topics to deliver messages
to different subscribers, of course,
including things, like email addresses for operations teams,
maybe you need to send an SMS to someone on call,
or you can even trigger other services
to start remediation efforts.
Config can also send events to EventBridge,
and this allows you to route events to other services.
With EventBridge, you can trigger actions based
on the events generated by the Config service.
For example, you can send events to SQS or Lambda
to also automate responses
to specific changes that are recorded.
These integrations enable you to set up real-time alerting
and event-driven automation
in response to configuration changes
and compliance status updates.
Okay, let's do this.
We're going to take a break from all of this information,
we'll jump into the Console sandbox,
and we're going to look at different Config rules
that are available for us to use,
as well as dig into
some of the current statuses based on those rules.
Okay, hello gurus.
I'm in my Console sandbox environment,
and what I'm going to do is navigate to AWS Config.
Now, once this loads, we land on the dashboard.
And one thing I do want to call out here
is that this account, of course, is part of an organization.
Now, in the organization,
there's a delegated administrator account
that's setting all of the different rules
and all of the different enforcements.
So because of that, all of this rule statuses
and compliance statuses get aggregated
and sent up to that delegated admin account,
and that's where they can set other enforcements
or let stuff go.
So with that being said, we wanna look at the rules here,
so I'll open up Rules.
And you'll notice there are
a ton of different rules available,
notice all of the pages.
Now for this, I'm just gonna explore this EC2 rule.
What this is doing is it's looking for EBS encryption,
being enabled by default for our EC2 instances.
You'll notice it says this rule is non-compliant
if encryption is not enabled.
You'll also notice the trigger type.
So this is set to periodic or otherwise on a schedule,
and it's checking every 24 hours.
Now if we look down here in the second section,
there is remediation set in place.
You'll notice that they're calling an Automation Document
to actually turn on EBS encryption by default.
So what's going on is it's gonna go ahead
and enable encryption using a role that's set here,
and it's gonna scan through all noncompliant resources
and take care of that remediation effort for us.
Now, if I jump down to the bottom here,
you'll see right now there's no resources
and scope that are noncompliant.
So this is just an example of what a rule looks like.
Now, if we want, I can actually look up
this Automation Document.
So if I copy this, let's go to Systems Manager,
I'll navigate to Documents,
and in Documents, I'm going to search All,
and I'm gonna search for
this last portion here, EnableEbsEncryptionByDefault.
Now, the reason I'm not searching
the entire document name
is because there is a character limit,
so if I searched the whole thing,
it would come up with an error.
So instead, I'm gonna search for this specifically.
We see Amazon owns it, so it's an Amazon-owned document,
and let's look at this really quickly before we leave.
You'll notice like the input was in the rule,
we're passing the ARN of the role
that this document will assume,
and let's just quickly look at the content.
So this is just a nice little example to look at.
It's modifying the account,
and it's saying, "Hey, we want to enable EBS encryption
by default for all future instances."
Okay, that's gonna do it for this look at a Config rule
as well as an automation document.
Let's go ahead and jump back in the presentation.
Okay, welcome back.
Let's wrap things up with some exam tips.
AWS Config is a valuable tool
for assessing and monitoring standards
and compliance of your architectures.
It helps you ensure that your resources adhere
to specific requirements.
It can be used to track and provide information
about resources that were previously deleted.
This historical data can be valuable
for auditing and compliance purposes.
You can use Automation documents within Systems Manager,
as well as Lambda functions
to enforce your standards and automate responses.
Also remember, that Config allows you
to aggregate results from multiple regions
and even multiple accounts.
This helps provide a centralized view of your configuration
and compliance data across an org.
You do need to know that Config is regional.
What this means is that it operates independently
in each region where it's enabled.
Please remember that.
And lastly, it's important to remember
that Config is a monitoring and assessment tool.
This service is not preventative.
Please remember that.
It only records and alerts on changes.
Now, that's gonna do it on AWS Config.
Let's go ahead and end things here,
and then I will see you in the next lesson.