Welcome back, Cloud Gurus.
This lesson is going to take a look
at managing software licenses
in AWS using AWS License Manager.
Now, this'll be a shorter lesson,
but let's take a look at what we can expect.
We'll go over the AWS License Manager service,
and then we're going to finish up with some exam tips.
So I was being serious when I said it,
it will be really short.
So what is AWS License Manager?
It's a service that's meant to make licensing easy for you.
It simplifies managing software license
with many different supported vendors.
So things like Microsoft, SAP and Oracle, for example.
It centralizes the management
across AWS accounts and even includes
on-premises environments,
so it's not just inclusive to AWS,
it includes your on-premises hybrid workloads
and environments.
The service allows you to set usage limits.
It allows you to have control
and visibility into the usage of your licenses,
and you can enable the usage limits on those licenses.
So what this accomplishes is it helps you reduce overages,
so you're reducing your overages and penalties that go along
with those overages via inventory tracking
and rule-based controls for license consumption.
We all know that licensed software can be very finicky
and there can be a hefty fine
or penalty for abusing the licenses themselves.
The cool thing about it is it's versatile.
It supports any software based
on vCPUs, physical cores, sockets,
and a number of different machine types.
Okay, so that's the service in a nutshell.
Let's go over some exam tips
and then we can wrap this up and move on.
Just remember that License Manager is a service
meant to make license management much simpler
and more efficient for you.
Some keywords and scenarios, keep an eye out
for anything talking about AWS hosted license management,
hybrid environment license management, or some type
of service to help with preventing license abuse.
This service can do all of those things.
And then a quick study tip,
just be sure to know that this service is only for licenses.
It is not meant
for deployment of services or infrastructure.
Okay, that's going to do it
for this very short, yet sweet lesson.
Let's go ahead, end here, and then when you're ready,
we'll pick back up in the next one.