Welcome back, Gurus.
This lesson is going to be about monitoring health events
in the AWS Personal Health Dashboard. During this lesson,
we're going to go over a service overview.
We'll take a look at AWS Health Concepts,
and AWS Health is the name
that they're kind of shifting toward
instead of Personal Health Dashboard.
We're going to look at different health event examples
and we'll wrap things up with some exam tips
and important takeaways for you to take into your exam.
So what is this service?
Well, first things first, AWS Health.
Now AWS is shifting
to calling this service AWS Health within the documentation.
So from here on out, I'll refer to it
as AWS Health instead of AWS Personal Health Dashboard.
Now, this service is meant to provide you visibility
of your resource performances as well
as availability of different AWS services or even accounts.
You can leverage the service to view how
these health events actually affect you,
your services, your resources, and your accounts
so you can get very specific
to how it's actually affecting you.
Now, AWS does provide, or it does its best to provide,
I should say, to maintain timeliness
and relevant information with the events.
They try and be fast and they try to be accurate.
And because of all of this
it helps you be better prepared and allows you to
implement automation regarding these different event types.
You can view upcoming maintenance tasks
that may affect your accounts and resources
and remediate them before they cause any issues.
Another neat feature of AWS Health is that it gives you
near instant delivery of notifications and alerts.
So this is going to speed up your troubleshooting
or even your prevention of problems by allowing you
to leverage these notifications
or alert events to perform some type of action.
Now, a little pro tip here, and please remember this,
you can automate actions based
on incoming events using Amazon Event Bridge.
So you can look for an event coming into this service,
kick off some type of automation via Event Bridge,
which may be connected
to an SNS topic or maybe a Lambda function.
Now let's dive into some concepts that you should know.
The first is AWS Health event.
And these are notifications that are sent
on behalf of AWS services or just AWS overall.
There's account-specific events,
so these are events that are specific
to your accounts or your organization.
There's public events, which are reported
on services that are public
and are not necessarily specific to any accounts.
We also have the Health Dashboard, and this is
just a dashboard showing account and public events
and it will show you the service health as well.
We have event type code,
and these include the affected services
and the specific type of event.
In addition to the code, there's also a category.
So this is strictly the associated category
and this will be attached to every event.
Each event will have a category.
There's event status, so this reports
if the event is open, closed,
or maybe an upcoming maintenance task.
And then lastly, we have affected entities.
So which resources in AWS are,
or may be, affected by the event?
So let's take a look at some examples.
On the right you can see this is an example
from the AWS Health dashboard,
and I just want to show you a few different examples.
The first example is
an EC2 system reboot maintenance scheduled.
So hardware running an EC2 instance
in your account needs to be rebooted
for systems maintenance.
Usually to remediate this on your end or prevent it
you can go ahead, go in,
stop and then start your EC2 instance,
which should shift it to another piece of hardware.
The second is an EC2 operational issue.
So this indicates that there's an actual service issue
that could be affecting your EC2 instances.
This could be as simple as delays
in response times all the way to actual downtimes
of the service.
So I don't know if you recall, but years ago
there was an S3 outage that caused obviously a global issue
and that would show up
in the health dashboard for everyone to see.
And then the last example I wanted to include
is a billing suspension notice.
So your AWS account, or one within your org,
has outstanding charges, so it's at risk of suspension
or even closure.
And these are just 3 of many,
and I do mean many, event examples.
So if you want to, feel free to look them all up,
there are tons in the documentation, but I just
wanted you to be familiar with what they look like
and kind of what they contain.
Okay, let's go ahead and have some exam tips
and some takeaways.
Remember that this service allows you to gain visibility
into service and resource health for AWS resources
and your accounts.
It provides alerting, which enables you to
receive notifications for these alerts
for effective resources or even upcoming events.
Remember, and please do remember this,
you can automate actions based on incoming events
using Amazon EventBridge.
So for instance, if we go back to that reboot example
you could look for that type of event,
use Amazon Event Bridge to trigger a Lambda,
which automatically stops and then starts that EC2
that's affected.
Remember, there are specific and there are public events.
So you're going to receive both within the dashboard
but you can filter.
And then lastly, some keyword or scenarios.
Look out for questions about checking alerts
for service health
and automating reboots of instances for AWS maintenance,
which we kind of just talked about.
Now that's going to do it.
Let's go ahead and wrap up here, and then when
you're ready to move on, we'll see you in the next one.