Hello Cloud Gurus, and welcome back. In this lesson,
we're going to take a look
at how do we deal with active directory inside of AWS.
Now that means we're going to have to define
what is the Directory Service,
what are the different types of Directory Service
that we're going to encounter, and when do we use each one?
And then we're going to go ahead
and wrap this all up with some exam tips.
So those will be a little bit of a shorter lesson.
So let's go ahead and dive right on in.
So what is the Directory Service?
Well, AWS Directory Service,
it's a fully managed version of active directory.
So if you've ever worked with active directory before,
you've basically worked with the Directory Service.
Effectively, what it allows you to do
is run AD inside of AWS
without having to do all that heavy lifting setup
that normally goes with running active directory on-prem.
Now that's great to know at a high level,
but we need to take a look
at the different kinds of Directory Service
that we might see.
So, each type that we're going to talk about here
has a particular use case
that you're going to need to be aware of.
The first is called Managed Microsoft AD.
You can probably guess by the name,
this is an entire active directory suite.
It's managed, it's built by AWS,
it gives you all of the AD tools that you know and love,
but without the heavy lifting
of having to set it up yourself.
So this is great if you're building out
a complete active directory suite inside of AWS,
and you don't want to do it anywhere else,
you don't want to have it on-prem.
Now, a lot of times--especially in the exam--
you're going to see situations presented to you
where maybe you want to leave AD in a physical data center
in the physical office,
but you need to have something inside of the cloud,
something in AWS.
This is where AD Connector comes into play.
And what it does, is it's going to create a tunnel
between your AWS environment and your on-prem AD.
Now that basically means that you get an endpoint
that you can authenticate against inside of AWS
while leaving all of your actual users in data on-prem.
And the third type it's called Simple AD.
Now has the name makes it sound, this one's pretty simple.
It doesn't have all of the standard AD architecture
that you love, but it's got the basics.
It's effectively just an authentication service
that's up and running inside of AWS
and it's actually powered
by Linux Samba Active Directory compatible server.
That's great to know.
The exam itself is going to focus primarily
on Managed Microsoft AD and AD Connector,
but it can't hurt to know
that there is that third type of Simple AD
if you don't want all of the bells and whistles
that you normally get from the full suite.
So this lesson was rather quick.
We just need to know the Directory Service
at a very high level.
And in particular, the use cases
behind the Managed Microsoft AD and AD connector.
You're going to have to understand that Managed Microsoft AD
is for when we want to migrate everything into AWS.
And AD Connector is for when we want to leave that on-prem
or somewhere else
and don't want to move that into the cloud just yet.
You don't have to know all of the steps
around group policies and password expirations,
that's an entire other sort of exam.
And that knowledge is not going to be particularly useful
on this test.
So a few more tips here for us before we call it quits.
Know the types;
you have to know manage Microsoft AD, AD Connector
and Simple AD and know what they each do.
It is a fully managed service.
So when possible, use the Directory Service
over just running AD on an EC2 instance,
and remember, the exam always favors using managed services
over unmanaged services.
It's okay to leave AD on-prem, it happens.
Some of the scenarios you might see,
might talk about a customer not being comfortable,
moving their user accounts into the cloud just yet
and that's okay.
That's where the AD Connector comes into play.
So it's one of the few tools on the exam
that you might leave during that lift and shift
sort of question.
And my final tip here for us,
in order to prevent car door dings,
make sure you park very far away
from anyone else in the parking lot.
In fact, sometimes I actually just walk to where I'm going
and leave my car parked at home.
Alright folks, thanks for taking that quick look
at the Directory Service with me
and I can't wait to see you in our next lesson.