Okay. Hello again, Gurus.
In this lesson, we're gonna look at further optimizing cost
using AWS Cost and Usage Reports.
Throughout this lesson,
which is gonna be mainly theoretical,
we're going to cover Cost and Usage Reports,
also known as CUR.
We're gonna talk about use cases for them.
We'll look at the process to enable them,
and then we'll have some exam tips.
Okay, first things first, Cost and Usage Reports.
Now this is commonly abbreviated as A-W-S C-U-R,
so please be familiar with that abbreviation.
What this is is the most comprehensive set
of cost and usage data that is available to you
for AWS spending.
A key feature that you do need to know about
is that it allows you to publish your billing reports
to an Amazon S3 bucket for centralized collection.
So this is especially useful
if you need to use those reports
with a third party spending application.
What these reports do is they break down the costs
by certain time span, like hour, day, and month.
They can break it down by service and resource
or even by tags.
So it's very similar to Cost Explorer
that we looked at earlier.
Now the fourth point here is
that CUR updates reports in your buckets
at least once a day, and it uses a CSV format.
Now, it's important to note that it's a once a day update.
Please remember that.
Your updates don't occur whenever you want them to.
As soon as you enable it,
it's gonna be once a day from that point forward.
And lastly, the service easily integrates
with services like Athena for analyzation,
Redshift, for data transformations,
or QuickSight for data visualizations.
These all support this service for better cost analysis.
Now let's move on to some use cases.
The first primary use case
is that you can use this within an organization
or entire organizational groups or individual accounts.
It allows for that granularity.
So for instance, maybe you have an application team
that owns five accounts and they're in their own OU,
where you can generate a Cost and Usage Report
for just that OU.
It's very handy.
You can also use it to generate reports,
to track your savings plans.
So you can track things like utilization,
the different charges that occurred and current allocations,
or maybe you want to use it to monitor
on demand capacity reservations,
so to see what you're spending on your on-demand instances.
The fourth scenario is you can use it
to break down your data transfer charges.
So you can easily generate a daily report
to see what your external
and inter-region charges are for your data.
This can be extremely useful for realizing
that you need to implement VPC endpoints
instead of using public internet transfers.
And then fifthly, and lastly, it does allow you
to dive deeper into cost allocation tags
for your resource spending.
So if you set cost allocation tags
at the organization level,
you're requiring people go ahead
and use those tags on the resources.
You can easily dive deep into resource spending
based on those tags.
So an example could be an environment like development
or production or maybe an application team owner
where they have their own member ID
that you leverage in your billing reports.
Okay, so those are some use cases.
Let's talk about how you can enable this.
We'll do a step-by-step walkthrough using some graphics,
only because we don't have access
in the sandbox environments.
But in case you have access,
I walk you through doing this process.
The first thing you need to do
is navigate to the billing dashboard,
and you can see that here on this snippet.
The next step is we're gonna go ahead
and locate and select Cost and Usage Reports
on the left side of that billing menu.
After we get there,
you're gonna see a screen similar to this.
You provide your Cost and Usage Report name here.
You fill out the report content
if it's desired or even possible.
So for this instance, all the defaults have to be left.
But I did add additional content, which you can see here.
I'm including the resource IDs
to further identify the cost and the spend.
And then on the bottom here,
report data processing settings,
is where we're allowing AWS to automatically update
this report for us.
And notice how it says on the bottom,
the report in your bucket gets updated at least once a day.
So when that report refreshes,
a new report is going to be uploaded to your bucket.
Now moving on, the next section you would see
is to set the delivery options.
So if we are uploading that report,
which that's the point of it,
you configure an S3 bucket for storage.
In addition to that,
you can optionally define a path prefix.
So if you have several different reports
you want to generate, all using the same bucket,
you can use a path prefix like I have here,
cur_daily to indicate that this is a daily report.
In speaking of time granularity,
you can notice you can choose hourly, daily, or monthly.
So in this example, I chose daily.
Now below this on report versioning,
which I didn't call out,
you don't necessarily need to know this for the exam,
but I'd like to point it out just for this,
is you can choose if you want
to create a new report version,
based on the date and the time,
or overwrite the existing.
Typically, people use create new report
so they can have all of the different reports
to use later on for analysis.
But if you wanted to save on cost,
you could do that by overwriting.
Now the next section is the integrations.
So we can select what services we want
to natively integrate with, if we choose to.
Notice the three we talked about,
Athena, Redshift, and QuickSight.
Now these affect the way the data is stored
when you're integrating, so you need to be aware of that.
In addition to this, you have to choose
the correct compression type, based on your needs.
So if you are using a third party
SaaS vendor for billing and analysis,
they might require that it's either in GZIP
or maybe ZIP or even Parquet,
which are the three compression types, offered by default.
Okay, so that's how you enable Cost and Usage Reports.
Let's have some exam tips.
First, remember, this is the most comprehensive
and detailed view of your spending,
even more so than Cost Explorer.
You need to also know that these easily integrate
with S3 for storing centralized reports.
Remember, you select a bucket to store each report in,
and you can select a path prefix
depending on the report itself.
You can use CURs within organizations,
at an organizational level.
You can also use it at an organizational unit level
or even a specific member account level.
It allows for a lot of flexibility.
There's built-in support for your reports
to be queried with Athena,
ingested for transformations with Redshift
or visualized with QuickSight.
Remember those three integrations.
Also, remember, an automatic report update
will occur at least once a day.
It's out of your control,
but AWS is pretty good at about making this,
roughly, on a 24 hour schedule.
Now, lastly, any mention of detailed cost breakdowns
and delivery of daily usage reports,
in addition to tracking Savings Plans utilizations
will likely include this service,
if one is in the answer.
Now, that'll do it for this lesson
on Cost and Usage Reports.
Let's go ahead and take a break,
grab some caffeine, grab some water,
take a nap, do whatever you need to do,
and then when you're ready,
I will see you in the next lesson.