All right, welcome back, Cloud Gurus.
This lesson is going to look at optimizing architectures
with the AWS Well-Architected Tool.
During this lesson, we're going to have
a review of the Well-Architected Framework.
You should know that very well for this particular exam,
so we're just going to review it
so we can talk about how this tool references it.
We'll look at the tool itself, and then we'll wrap things up
with some exam tips and takeaways again,
so you can take those into the exam with you.
All right, Well-Architected Framework review.
So if you recall, there are 6 pillars.
We're not going to dive into these deep.
It's just a reminder or a review that there are 6 of them.
We have Operational Excellence. We have Reliability.
There's Security, Performance Efficiency, Cost Optimization,
and can you guess the last one?
Sustainability.
You need to learn to love the Well-Architected Framework,
and you need to know it very well.
I cannot stress that enough.
So with that review out of the way,
let's look at the tool itself.
The AWS Well-Architected Tool is a service that provides
a consistent process for measuring your cloud architectures.
What it's measuring is, essentially,
your architecture against AWS best practices.
Now, a nice feature of it is that it enables
assistance with documentation of your workloads,
as well as your architecture choices.
It comes with guides for making workloads more reliable,
more secure, much more efficient,
and even more cost effective.
Now, the fourth point we kind of brushed on.
It measures your workloads against years
of AWS best practices.
These best practices were collected over many years
by either solutions architects at AWS
or even a variety of businesses
that run their architectures in the cloud.
Now, this service is intended for specific audiences,
and these include things like technical teams, CTOs,
architecture teams, and even operations teams.
They try and do a good job of making a well-rounded report
so you can cover kind of a wide gamut of people
within your companies.
All right, that's going to do it for this,
so let's just have a few exam tips and some takeaways
and then we'll wrap things up.
The biggest thing you need to remember
is the Well-Architected Tool, or AWS WA Tool for short,
is used for measuring current workloads
against established AWS best practices.
Remember, these best practices are from years of collection
from solutions architects and just successful companies
that use AWS Cloud.
The last big thing to remember is it aids you
in documentation of your workloads
and your architectural decisions,
so you can see why you made a certain decision,
or why you did not make that decision.
Okay, that'll do it for this lesson.
Let's go ahead, we'll end here, and then when you're ready,
I'll see you in the next one.