Hello, Cloud Gurus.
Welcome to this lesson on Reducing Compute Spend
Using Savings Plans and AWS Compute Optimizer.
During this lesson, we're going to cover several topics.
We're going to talk about what is AWS Compute Optimizer.
We'll talk about the different resources that work with it.
We'll look at supported accounts and types.
We'll discuss things that you should know about the service,
and then we'll move on to what are Savings Plans?
We'll explore the Savings Plans types.
We'll talk about how to use and apply them,
and then we'll finish everything up
with some exam tips and important takeaways.
So what is AWS Compute Optimizer?
Well, it's a service that analyzes configuration
and utilization metrics of your resources
and it helps you optimize them, as the name would imply.
It'll report your current usage optimizations
and then also give you potential recommendations
so that you can improve performance
and maybe even save some money.
The cool thing about this service
is it does provide you a graph
so you can see graphical history data
and also view the projected utilization metrics
that it's seeing.
You can use these recommendations
to make informed decisions.
So you use the graphs, the metric data,
and the recommendations for moving
or even resizing your resources.
So which resources actually work with this service?
Well, there's several.
There's Amazon EC2,
EC2 Auto Scaling Groups, Amazon Elastic Block Store, EBS,
and even AWS Lambda functions.
These all integrate with AWS Compute Optimizer.
Now, another thing to know are the supported account types.
The first is a standalone AWS account,
so this is a normal single account
that does not have AWS Organizations enabled.
It can be a member account,
so this is a single member AWS account
within an AWS organization.
And when you opt in to this service,
whichever account you do it in, if it's in a member account,
then it will only generate optimization recommendations
for that individual member account.
Now, you can also do the management account
in an organization.
And when you do this and you enable it and opt in,
you can actually generate recommendations
based on the entire organization itself,
or you can lock it down to this one specific account,
so there are options.
So as you can see, it's pretty flexible.
Now, what are some things
that you should know for this service?
Well, the biggest is that it is disabled by default.
You must opt in to leverage this service.
And after opting in, you actually want to probably
enable enhanced recommendations
via activation of recommendation preferences in the menu.
An example of one of these recommendations is seen here,
enhanced infrastructure metrics, which is a paid feature.
What this does is it extends your metrics analysis
and you can look back further
and get a better view of your historical data
and get more accurate recommendations.
Okay, so with AWS Compute Optimizer out of the way,
let's start diving into Savings Plans.
What are they?
Well, Savings Plans offer flexible pricing models
to give you savings on your AWS usage.
You can actually save up to 72% on compute,
which is significant.
Now, compute Savings Plans
provide you lower prices on EC2 instances
regardless of the instance family,
the size, the operating system, the tenancy choice,
or even the region.
And the cool thing is compute plans also apply to things,
like AWS Lambda and even AWS Fargate.
They also offer SageMaker plans,
and these, as the name would imply, offer you lower pricing
for your Amazon SageMaker instances.
Now, there are some commitments to get the savings.
So savings are provided to you as a trade
for long-term commitments.
You can agree to 1-year or 3-year pricing options
and those pricing options have different choices to them.
You can choose to pay all upfront,
which gives you the greatest amount of savings,
partial upfront, or even no money upfront.
So what are the Savings Plans types?
Well, the first, which we briefly covered,
is a Compute Savings plan.
Now, this is the most flexible savings plan offered.
It applies to any EC2 compute, any AWS Lambda,
and any Fargate usage.
It gives you up to 66% savings on typical on-demand pricing.
So the savings are slightly lower on this type of plan
because it offers you more flexibility
like EC2 instance size, region, etc.
However, they do offer a more strict savings plan
called EC2 Instance Savings Plans.
These apply only to EC2 instances
of a specific family in specific regions.
But in the tradeoff of being more specific
and a little bit more strict,
you get a higher savings up to 72%.
And then the last one,
which we also briefly covered, is SageMaker Savings Plans.
These apply only to SageMaker instances,
but they are regardless of the instance family and size.
It can be for any region and any component,
so things like notebooks, training, etc.
And they offer up to 64% in savings
compared to the typical compute spend.
All right, so you know what they are,
but how do you use and how do you apply these Savings Plans?
Well, the first thing you do
is you view and visit the recommendations section
within your AWS billing console.
The cool thing is recommendations in there
are automatically calculated
to make your purchasing decisions way easier.
These recommendations give you more optimal Savings Plans
to help you save the most amount of money.
You literally add these to a cart
and purchase them directly within your account.
So it's essentially a normal shopping experience,
but it's for saving money.
Now, a little tidbit is they do only apply to usage rates
after your Reserved Instances are applied and exhausted.
So if you have Reserved Instances purchased,
those have to be used up first
before you start using your savings plan usages.
And if you're in a consolidated billing family,
the Savings Plans are applied to the account owner first,
but then they can be spread to others if you enable sharing.
Okay, so that covers both services.
Let's have some exam tips with some important takeaways
and then we can get you out of here.
AWS Compute Optimizer,
just remember that this provides recommendations
based on collected utilization and configuration metrics.
It works with several resources
including EC2, Auto Scaling, Lambda, and Amazon EBS.
It also integrates with Organizations,
so you can use it in a management account
for an entire organization, at a member account level,
or even just a standalone account outside of an org.
Now, Savings Plans are flexible offerings
for pricing on compute usage.
They're similar to Reserved Instances.
Remember, there are different plan types.
There's Compute Savings Plans, which are more flexible
and apply to things like Lambda and Fargate,
in addition to EC2.
There are EC2 Instance Savings Plans, which are more strict,
but offer you a higher rate of savings.
And then there's SageMaker Savings Plans,
which can apply to any component
within a SageMaker instance.
And then the last tidbit here are pricing terms.
Savings Plans come in 1 or 3-year agreements
and you can pay either all upfront
and receive the greatest savings,
partial upfront, or nothing upfront.
All right, that'll do it.
Let's go ahead, we'll end here, and then when you're ready,
we'll move on and pick up in the next one.