Welcome back, gurus.
In this lesson, we're going to talk
about sharing resources using AWS RAM.
In this lesson, we're going to cover
a few different topics.
We'll discuss what AWS Resource Access Manager actually is,
we'll talk about the different resources
that could be shared
and the popular ones that get shared,
we'll discuss owners and participants
within some of those shared resources,
and then we'll wrap things up with some exam tips.
So what is AWS Resource Access Manager?
Well, this is a service offered by AWS
that facilitates the sharing of your resources
with other accounts.
Now, this service works by allowing you
to share resources even if those other accounts
are outside your organization.
With RAM, you can seamlessly share your AWS resources,
which helps eliminate the need to create duplicates
of those resources across different accounts.
This service is essentially simplifying
resource sharing and management
while also improving resource utilization
and access control across accounts.
Now, here is a quick list of resources
that can be shared using RAM,
and these are popular to come up on this exam.
Transit gateways can be shared
in order to enable simplified network connectivity
across accounts within an org.
You can even share VPC subnets,
which allows for enhancing the flexibility
of network architectures,
and it enables secure communications
between resources between accounts.
You can share license manager resources,
which help you manage software license effectively.
You can share Route 53 Resolver rules and endpoints,
which is going to further help manage
DNS routing and resolution
across your different accounts within your org.
Another one you can share are dedicated hosts.
These can be shared to efficiently allocate
and then manage physical hosts between your accounts.
And, really, these listed here are just a few examples.
Now, they are very popular to come up on the exam,
and that's why we picked them out,
but do understand that RAM supports sharing
of various other resources
and it allows your org to optimize resource utilization.
Now, let's go ahead
and break down owners and participants.
Now, this is specific to sharing VPC resources.
Owners create and manage the actual resources
that are intended to be shared.
These owners are responsible
for setting up and configuring the resource.
You should know that owners cannot delete,
nor can they modify resources
that get deployed by the participant accounts
in these shared resources.
The owners strictly maintain control
over the configuration and management.
Now, on the other side of things,
participant accounts are the recipients
of the shared resources.
They can actually provision services like compute,
such as EC2, into the shared VPC subnets
that are created and managed by the owners.
It is essential to note
that participant accounts cannot modify
or delete these shared resources.
In other words, they can't delete the subnets
or the VPCs that get shared.
They can strictly only use the resources.
In other words, they don't have the ability
to change the configuration
or the settings of the subnets, et cetera.
This separation of roles ensures
that ownership and control of the shared resources
is always maintained by the owners,
while the participants can actually utilize them
without being able to alter them.
Now, let's go ahead and move into the last part here
where we'll have some exam tips regarding AWS RAM.
Remember, RAM simplifies resource sharing
across different accounts within an organization.
It eliminates the need
to recreate resources for each account.
Now, RAM by itself is a free service to use,
but do remember you're paying for the resources
that you're sharing,
so think things like Transit Gateway, et cetera.
Keep cost considerations in mind when using this.
RAM also enables organizations
to efficiently share components like VPC subnets,
and it allows you to reduce redundancy
and resource duplication.
Understand when it's more appropriate
to share VPC resources like subnets, et cetera,
as opposed to using VPC peering.
Both methods have their own specific use cases.
Also, be aware that participant accounts
can use the shared resources,
but they cannot modify or delete them.
Understanding these limitations is essential
for effective resource sharing in the accounts.
Now, that's gonna do it for AWS RAM.
Let's end things here.
We'll take a break, and when you're ready,
I'll see you in the next lesson.