Okay, hello Gurus,
In this lesson we're gonna talk about using AWS Budgets.
In this very short lesson,
we're gonna cover what the service is,
we'll talk about the different types of budgets you can set,
and we'll have some exam tips.
AWS Budgets, what is it?
Well, this is a service
that allows organizations and accounts
to easily plan and then set expectations around cloud costs.
Using this service, you can track the ongoing spend
within your accounts,
and then you can even create alerts
to actually let users know
when they're close to exceeding the allotted spend
that you set.
Now within the service,
there are different types of budgets.
There's a cost budget,
and this is where you plan
how much you actually want to spend on services.
A usage budget is going to help you plan
how much you want to use on one or many services.
The next is a reserved instance utilization budget.
So this is gonna deal with the utilization threshold.
You're essentially seeing if your reserved instances
are going to be unused or are they being underutilized?
An RI coverage budget talks about the coverage threshold,
so how much of instance usage
is actually covered by a specific reservation.
And then the next one deals with savings plans utilization.
Similar to the RI utilization budget,
this is going to see if your savings plans
are unused or underutilized.
And then there's a savings plans coverage budget.
So just like it's predecessor, the RI coverage,
this deals with coverage thresholds specific
to your savings plans.
Now, you should be familiar with these at a high level,
but the big thing is to understand what AWS Budgets offers.
And with that, let's have some exam tips.
Now, this likely won't be on the exam in depth,
but you do need to know that you can create budgets.
Budgets within this service are going to be
the absolute best way to let your users know
when they're getting close
to overspending in their accounts.
You can actually leverage Cost Explorer with this
in order to create even better, more fine-grained budgets.
Now, of course, it's always best to be proactive
because once your money is spent, that money is gone.
So be sure you're setting appropriate budget alerts.
Do your best to remember
the six different types of budgets that we just covered.
Again, you likely won't need to know them too in depth,
but you do need to know they're available.
And lastly, you can actually use tags
to create specific budgets,
so you can leverage the tag values to create budgets
around those tag values and set isolated spending limits.
Okay, that's gonna do it for this short lesson
on AWS Budgets.
Let's end things here
and then we'll pick back up with the next lessons.