Okay, hello, Cloud Gurus,
and welcome to this lecture.
This is a really quick lecture,
and we're going to learn about AWS Backup.
So we're going to look at what AWS Backup is.
We'll look at how we can use
AWS Backup with our Organizations.
We'll look at the benefits of AWS Backup,
and then we'll go onto my exam tips.
So what is AWS Backup?
Well, it's probably what you imagine.
It's a way of backing up the different AWS services.
So Backup allows you to consolidate your backups
across multiple AWS services,
so things like EC2, EBS, EFS, Amazon FSx for Lustre,
FSx for Windows File Server, as well as Storage Gateway.
And so it can include other AWS services,
such as database technologies, like RDS and DynamoDB.
You can also use AWS Backup with organizations.
We will cover
off what Organizations are later on in the course,
but basically it's a way of having multiple AWS accounts
and consolidating them into 1 organization.
So Backups can actually be used
with AWS Organizations to back
up multiple AWS accounts in your organization.
And it gives you centralized control
across all AWS services in multiple AWS accounts
across your entire AWS organization.
So you can back up all those different services that I said
across multiple accounts, provided those accounts are set
up using AWS Organizations.
And like I said, we will cover
off what that is later on in the course.
So in terms of the benefits of AWS Backup,
just remember that you get central management.
So you basically use a single, central backup console,
which allows you to centralize your backups
across multiple AWS services and multiple AWS accounts.
You also get automation,
so you can create automated backup schedules
and retention policies.
You can also create lifecycle policies
which basically allow you to expire unnecessary backups
after a period of time.
And then you can get improved compliance.
So your backup policies can be enforced
and while backups can be encrypted both
at rest and in transit as well.
And this allows you alignment
towards your regulatory compliance,
and it's also great for auditing.
So auditing is made easy due to consolidated view
of backups across the many different AWS services.
So you've got a single pane of glass.
You can go in there and say,
"Okay, I have backed up my RDS instances,
"my EFS instances, my EBS instances, etc., etc."
So then onto my exam tips.
So just remember that AWS Backup gives you consolidation.
So use it to back up AWS services, such as EBS, EFS
Amazon FSx for Lustre, Amazon FSx for Windows File Server
as well as Storage Gateway.
So if you see any exam questions where it's talking
about, "Hey, you need to back up all these services.
"How do you do it and maintain a centralized point of view?"
Then you want to use AWS Backup.
You can also use it in conjunction
with AWS Organizations to backup your different AWS services
across multiple AWS accounts.
And just remember the benefits
of AWS Backup going into your exam.
Basically, Backups gives you centralized control,
letting you automate your backups
and define lifecycle policies for your data.
You get better compliance
as you can enforce your backup policies
and ensure your backups are encrypted.
And then you can also audit them once complete.
So literally you just need to know what AWS Backup is going
into your exam.
So that is it for this lecture, everyone.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.