Okay, hello Cloud Gurus
and welcome to this lecture.
Well, congratulations.
You're at the end of the EBS section of the course.
In this lecture,
we're just going to review everything that we've learned
in this section of the course.
So let's start with EBS volumes themselves.
I'll start with SSD Volumes.
They're highly available and scalable storage volumes
that you can attach to an EC2 instance.
So we'll have a look at gp2, this is general purpose SSD.
This is suitable for boot disks
and general applications,
gives you up to 16,000 IOPS per volume,
and it gives you up to 3 nines durability.
Then we looked at the newer one, which is gp3.
This is suitable for high performance applications
and it gives you a predictable
3,000 IOPS baseline performance
and 125 megabits per second, regardless of your volume size.
And again, this is 99.9% durability.
So 3 nines durability.
If you need a faster SSD volumes
than we have io1, this is provisioned IOPS SSD.
This is suitable for online transaction processing
and latency-sensitive applications.
Get up to 50 IOPS per GiB and up to 64,000 IOPS per volume.
It's high performance,
but it's also the most expensive EBS volume
that you can get and you get 3 nine durability.
We then have io2, which is the new provisioned IOPS SSD.
Again, this is suitable for online transaction processing
and latency-sensitive applications.
You get 500 IOPS per GiB
and about 64,000 IOPS or up to 64,000 IOPS per volume.
And with io2, you actually get 5 nines durability.
So it has the best durability out of any EBS volumes.
And it's the latest generation provisioned IOPS volume.
Moving on to our magnetic storage.
So we had throughput optimize hard disc drive.
This is suitable for big data, data warehouses,
extract, transform, and load.
And the maximum throughput is 500 MBs per second
and it cannot be a boot volume
but you do get up to 3 nine's durability.
We then have sc1,
this has a max throughput of 250 MBs
per second per volume.
It gives you less frequently accessed data.
It cannot be a boot volume,
but it is the lowest cost
and it gives you three nines durability.
So, going onto some tips for volumes and snapshots.
So just remember that volumes exist on EBS
whereas snapshots exist on S3.
And snapshots are basically like at what you would do
with a camera.
They're a point in time photograph of a volume
and they're incremental in nature.
Because of this,
the first snap that you'll take
is going to take some time to create
and for consistent snapshots,
you should really stop your instance and detach the volume.
That way everything is then saved to disk.
You can share your snaps between AWS accounts
as well as between regions,
but first you need to copy that snapshot
to the target region.
And you can also resize EBS volumes on the fly
as well as changing the volume types.
So you can go from gp2 to gp3, for example.
Moving on to AMIs,
and we're going to look at EBS versus Instance Store.
So instance store volumes
are sometimes called ephemeral storage,
and you can reboot both EBS instances
and instance store volumes and you'll not lose your data.
However, instance store volumes cannot be stopped.
And we saw that in our lecture.
We tried to go in and stop it
but we got that error message.
So if the underlying host fails,
you are going to lose your data with instance store volumes.
By default, both root volumes
will be deleted on termination.
However, with EBS volumes,
you can actually tell AWS to keep the root device volume.
EBS-backed instances can be stopped,
so you're not going to lose any data on your instance
if it is stopped.
And just as a bonus tip,
an AMI is just a blueprint for an EC2 instance.
So have things like the architecture type,
whether it's Windows or Linux,
and then the instance like size, for example,
et cetera, et cetera.
So that's all an AMI is.
Moving on to encrypted volumes.
So, data-at-rest is encrypted inside the volume.
All data-in-flight,
moving between the instance and the volumes
going to be encrypted.
All your snapshots of encrypted volumes are encrypted
and all volumes created
from your snapshots are encrypted as well.
This is the really important thing to remember
is how to encrypt existing root device volumes
that are unencrypted.
So you want to go ahead and create a snapshot
of the unencrypted root device volume.
You then create a copy of that snapshot
and you select the encrypt option.
You then create an AMI from the encrypted snapshot
and then you use that AMI
to launch a new encrypted instance,
and that's what we did in our console demo.
Moving on to EC2 hibernation.
This is where it preserves the in-memory RAM
on persistent storage.
So it basically saves the RAM to disk on EBS.
And it's basically much faster to boot up
so you don't need to reload the operating system.
Now, your instance RAM must be less than 150 GBs
and it's only available across the C class families,
the M class families, and the R class families.
And it's available for Windows, Amazon Linux 2 AMI,
and Ubuntu.
And instances cannot be hibernated for more than 60 days.
And it's available for on-demand instances
and reserved instances.
Moving on to EFS.
So this supports the network file system version 4
or NFSv4 protocol.
It can support thousands of concurrent NFS connections.
You only pay for the storage that you use.
You don't have to worry about pre-provisioning
and starting with, let's say a 100 GBs,
you literally just create the EFS volume
like we saw in our demo and it exists straight away.
And then as you add more and more files to it,
it will automatically adjust, it's elastic.
So the data is stored across multiple AZs within a region.
It can scale up to petabytes
and it has read after write consistency.
Now, if you have a scenario-based question
around highly scalable shared storage using NFS,
I want you to always think of EFS.
In the exam,
you are going to be given different scenarios
and asked to choose whether you should be using EFS,
FSx for Windows, or FSX for Lustre.
EFS is when you need highly distributed
and highly resistant storage for Linux instances
and Linux-based applications.
Amazon FSx for Windows is when you need centralized storage
for Windows-based applications.
So this could be things like SharePoint, SQL Server,
Workspaces, IIS, or any other native Microsoft application.
And then Amazon FSx for Lustre is when you need high-speed,
high-capacity distributed storage.
And this will be for applications
that do high performance computing, financial modeling,
and remember that FSx for Luster
can store data directly on S3.
So just summing up
and comparing all our different storage options
because this is a big chunk of the exams.
It's definitely going to be 10 or 12 marks
where you have to choose different storage options
based on your different scenarios.
So S3 is great for serverless object storage.
So things like files, videos, et cetera,
where you don't want to have to manage EC2 instances.
Glacier, just think of every time you hear the word archive,
that's going to be a Glacier question.
So it's used for archiving objects.
EFS is network file system, or NFS, for Linux instances.
So it's a centralized storage solution
across multiple availability zones.
FSx for Lustre is file storage
for high performance computing Linux file systems.
EBS Volumes is persistent storage for EC2 instances.
And your Instance Store is ephemeral storage
for EC2 instances.
FSx for Windows is file storage for Windows instances.
So it's centralized storage across multiple AZs.
And like I said, if you just get a SharePoint question,
I want you to think of FSx for Windows.
And then finally knowing the different use cases
for the storage will gain you valuable points in the exam.
And like I said, it's probably going to be worth about 12
marks over all the different storage options.
You'll be given all these different scenario questions
and then you'll have to pick which the right storage
option is.
And then finally we looked at AWS Backups.
So going into your exam, just remember what AWS Backup is.
It's used for consolidations
to back up your different AWS services.
So this could be things like EC2, EBS, EFS,
Amazon FSx for Luster, Amazon FSx for Windows File Server,
and AWS Storage Gateway and essentially
it's going to give you a single pane of glass
to back up all these different services.
You can also use it in conjunction with AWS organizations,
and this allows you to back up different AWS services
across multiple AWS accounts.
And just remember the benefits of AWS backup
going into your exam.
So it gives you centralized control,
letting you automate your backups
and define your lifecycle policies for your data.
And you get better compliance
as you can enforce your backup policies
make sure they're encrypted,
and then audit them once they are complete.
So hopefully you've learned an awful lot in this section
of the course.
You've done really, really well
and if you have any questions, please let me know,
if not feel free to move on to the next section.
Thank you.