Okay, hello Cloud Gurus
and welcome to this section of the course.
In this section of the course
we're going to be looking at elastic block storage or EBS.
And in this lecture we're going to have a look
at an overview of EBS.
So we're going to understand our EBS volumes,
what EBS is.
We'll look at where we would use EBS.
So for mission critical applications,
we're then going to explore the different volume types.
So we'll start with our solid state discs
and then we'll move onto our hard disk drive.
And then we'll move on to our IOPS versus throughput
what the differences are between them
and then onto our exam tips.
So what is EBS?
Well, like I said,
EBS just stands for elastic block storage
and there are different types of EBS volumes available
which we will cover off in a few slides.
But basically there's different use cases
for each type of EBS volumes.
And as you go into your exam,
you'll be given scenario based questions
and you'll need to choose the best EBS volume type
for that scenario.
So like I said, EBS just stands for elastic block store,
and these are storage volumes that you can attach your EC2
instances to.
So let's say we've got a T3EC2 instance,
that's the compute side of it.
We obviously need to attach storage,
so we need to have a place where the operating system
is installed or where the applications
or database is installed.
So let's say we're using an Amazon Linux operating system.
So we would then install that on our EBS volume.
We could also go ahead and install our applications.
So maybe it's a WordPress app
or maybe we're just running Apache on our own custom apps.
And then we also can install our data or database
on our EBS volume.
So these could be files, or it could be a MySQL database
or SQL server, or any kind of relational
or non-relational database running on EBS.
So EBS gives us the ability to install
all kinds of things on it.
It's basically just a virtual hard disk
that is attached to your virtual EC2 instance.
So you use them the same way that you use any system disk.
You can go in and create a file system, run a database
run an operating system, store data,
or we can also install our application.
So I want you to think of EBS as just a elastic block
storage disk or a virtual disc in the cloud.
'Cause that's all it is.
It's a virtual hard disk in the cloud
that's attached to our EC2 instance.
So that's all that EBS is.
And EBS is designed for our mission critical data.
So things like our production workloads.
So essentially it's built from the ground up
for mission critical workloads.
It's highly available and it's automatically replicated
within a single availability zone to protect
against hardware failures.
So like I said, you can think of it as a virtual hard disk
in the cloud, but it's not on one physical hard disk.
Your EBS volumes will exist across multiple disks
in probably multiple different data centers
inside a single availability zone.
But they'll always be within that same availability zone.
And we'll get to that a bit later on.
So that's all EBSs is.
It's a virtual disc in the cloud that's automatically
replicated within a single availability zone to protect
against hardware failures.
It's also very scalable.
So you can dynamically increase capacity
and change the volume type with no downtime
or performance impact to your live systems.
So this is really important to remember going into the exam.
Let's say you've got a hundred gigs
in terms of storage for your EC2 instance
and you've suddenly run outta storage space.
You can just increase that to 150 gigs
and you're not gonna have any downtime
or performance impact.
You will have to go in and resize the file system
but you can automatically add storage
and you don't have to stress about downtime.
So let's have a look at our different EBS volume types
and we'll start with our solid state disk or SSSD drives.
And essentially right now
there's always two different types.
So we will start with general purpose and it's gp2.
So gp2 just start stands for general purpose.
It's a balance of price and performance.
You get three IOPS per gig
and a maximum of up to 16,000 IOPS per volume.
And gp2 volumes smaller than one terabyte
can burst up to 3000 IOPS.
And these are basically good for boot volumes or development
and test applications that are not latency sensitive.
And we'll be using gp2 by default throughout the rest
of this course and it will be our boot volume.
Now there is a new generation of gp called gp3.
Now, before you worry going into your exam
you're never gonna be asked to choose gp2
over gp3 or gp3 over gp2, et cetera.
They'll basically just update the questions
and it'll either say gp2 as an option or gp3
but you won't have to choose between them.
So just remember that general purpose is basically
there for your boot device volumes.
This is where you're going to install your operating system.
So gp3 has predictable 3000 IOPS baseline performance
and 125 megabits per second.
Regardless of volume size
you don't need to size your volumes
to a particular size in order to achieve that throughput.
It comes as like that as base standard,
and it's ideal for applications that require
high performance at a low cost.
So the things like MySQL, Cassandra, virtual desktops,
and Hadoop analytics,
And customers who are looking for higher performance
can scale up to 16,000 IOPS and 1000 megabytes per second
for an additional fee.
Now again, going into your exam, don't worry
you're never going to be asked to memorize the IOPS
or throughput for any of these, EBS volume types.
All you need to know is their use cases.
So gp, whether it's gp2 or gp3
you are just using that to install an operating system on.
It's basically the default volume that we you would use
when you provision an EC2 instance.
And just remember that the top performance
of gp3 is actually four times faster
than the max performance of gp2 volumes.
So I don't think it's likely
you're gonna be asked to choose,
between gp3 and gp2 in the exam.
I've never seen a question like that,
but if you do have the choice
always choose gp3 because it is faster.
If you need super fast performance with SSSD
then we move on to provisioned IOPS.
And just like gp2 and gp3
you've got io1 and io2.
So io1 is the legacy one.
This is high performance option and is the most expensive.
It gives you up to 64,000 IOPS
per volume and you get 50 IOPS per gig.
You basically use this if you need more than 16,000 IOPS.
So the only thing you really need to remember
going into your exam is if you've got a high performance
let's say it's a database or something
and it needs more than 16,000 IOPS straightaway.
Just think of io1 or io2.
It's designed for I/O intensive intensive applications
so large databases, latency sensitive workloads, et cetera.
And then we have provisioned IOPS2 or io2.
This is the latest generation
and it's got a higher durability and more IOPS than io1.
And io2 is basically the same price as io1.
You get 500 IOPS per gig with up to 64,000 IOPS.
It gives you five nine durability
instead of three nine durability.
And it's used for IO intensive applications
such as large databases and latency sensitive workloads.
So basically applications that need high levels
of durability.
So those are all our solid state drives.
Let's move on to our hard disk drives or HDDs.
And we're going to start with throughput
optimize hard disk drive.
And this is known as st1.
And basically this is a low cost hard disk drive volume.
And by hard disk drive, I just mean it's magnetic
it's not SSSD, it's magnetic storage.
So it's the real old school hard drives,
and you have a baseline throughput of 40 megabits per second
per terabyte, and you have the ability to burst up to 250
megabits per second per terabyte and your maximum throughput
of 500 megabits per second per volume.
And this is basically designed for frequently accessed
and throughput intensive workloads.
Now I know you're wondering, well what's the difference
between IOPS and throughput?
And we will cover that off.
But every time you hear things like big data,
data warehousing, ETL, which is extracts, transform and load
and log processing, I want you to think of throughput.
So I want you to think of throughput and not IOPS
and that will help you very much in your exam
when you're looking at different scenario questions.
So throughput, optimize hard disk drives
are a cost effective way to store mountains of data.
And it cannot be a boot volume.
So it cannot be a volume that Linux
has already pre-installed on or Windows
or any other operating system with EC2.
So you have to do that.
You can't do that on throughput optimize.
This is only used for things like big data,
data warehouses, ETL, and log processing.
Next up we have our cold hug disk drives
and this is known as sc1.
And this is your lowest cost option.
So if you hear a scenario based question
where they're talking about what EBS volume to use
to maximize cost reduction, just think of cold hard to drive
or sc1, and this has a baseline throughput of 12 megabytes
per second per terabyte.
You have the ability to burst up to 80 megabytes per second
per terabyte, and your max throughput is of 250
megabytes per second per volume.
And this is a good choice
for colder data requiring fewer scans per day.
So you might want to use this as a file server for example.
So it's good for applications that need
the lowest cost and performance is not a factor.
So maybe this is where you store some of your static images
for some reason you don't wanna do it on S3
you wanna do it on an EBS volume
and you need to have it on the lowest cost possible.
Then you want your cold hard disk drive
and like the other option.
So our throughput optimize hard disk drive
this cannot be a boot volume.
So we've had our hard disk drive, we've had our SSSD
and we've talked about IOPS versus throughput.
So what is the difference?
Where do you use IOPS and where do you use throughput?
So what is IOPS?
Well, it measures the number
of reads and write operations per second.
And this is an important metric
for quick transaction load latency apps
and transactional workloads.
So I want you to think of a busy online store.
Custom goes through your checkout and makes a transaction.
They've got everything in their cart, they hit purchase
and you need to save this to a database.
It's a very transactional thing.
Then you want as high as IOPS as possible
so you can conduct this transaction more quickly.
And of course you can have thousands of transactions
or even maybe millions of transactions
going on simultaneously.
So IOPS is all about the ability
to action reads and writes very, very quickly.
And if you have a transactional database
then you want to choose provisioned IOPS, SSSDs
so io1 or io2.
With throughput, this measures the number of bits read
or written per second, so megabytes per second.
And it's important metric for large data sets,
large IO sizes and complex queries.
So this is where you need the ability to deal
with large data sets and you're gonna choose throughput
optimize hard disk drives.
So essentially what you're looking for in your scenario
based questions is if they're talking about big data,
data warehouses, ETLs, et cetera
then you're gonna be putting it on throughput optimized.
Whereas if you are talking about transactions
you're going to either use general purpose
or IOPS depending on your cost savings.
Depending on what your appetite is for cost.
If you wanna keep your cost down, then it's general purpose.
If you wanna maximize your performance
then you're gonna use io1 or io2.
And then moving back on to cold hard disk drives.
If you just want to have the lowest cost possible
but still have an EBS volume
then you want cold hard disk drives.
So it's pretty simple just going into your exam.
Look for the scenario question.
If it's talking about big data
you want throughput optimize.
If it's a transactional database
you're gonna need to move to SSSD.
And then you just need to decide
if you are using a general purpose two
or if you're using provisioned IOPS
sometimes it's called PIOPS in your exam
and then you just choose io1 or io2
depending on the scenario based questions.
So onto my exam tips, let's just review all the different
EBS volumes that we have learn.
You will get scenario based questions going into your exam
and you'll be asked to choose which EBS volume type
is going to be the best choice for that particular scenario.
It's probably gonna be worth four or five marks.
So I would definitely learn your EBS volume types by heart.
But don't worry, you don't need to remember specific IOPS
or throughput or anything like that apart
from maybe if you need more than 16,000 IOPS
then you want to go up to provisioned IOPS.
So io1 or io2.
So general purpose too, this is basically suitable
for our boot disk and general applications.
You get up to 16,000 IOPS per volume,
you get three nines durability.
We then have gp3.
So again, this is general purpose SSSD
it's the next generation suitable
for high performance applications.
It gives you predictable 3000 IOPS based line performance
and 125 megabytes per second regardless of your volume size.
And you get three nines durability with it.
Now, like I keep saying you're never gonna have to choose
gp3 over gp2, it doesn't work like that.
You just have to remember that if you want to install
an operating system then you probably just want to use
general purpose.
And if they've updated the exam questions
then it'll say gp3 on the exam.
If they haven't, then it'll be gp2.
Provisioned IOPS is where you need very fast performance.
So it's suitable for online transaction processing
and latency sensitive applications will cover
what OLTP is in the databases section of the course.
But essentially provisioned IOPS is basically required
when you have very high performance databases.
So it could be like an online shop or something,
you want to install that on a EBS volume
that gives you the fastest IOPS.
You get 50 IOPS per gig
and you get up to 64,000 IOPS per volume.
And it's most high performance but also the most expensive.
And you get up to three nines durability.
And we have the latest generation, which is io2,
again this is suitable for online transaction processing
and latency sensitive applications.
You get 500 IOPS per gig with io2
and up to 64,000 IOPS per volume.
And it gives you five nines durability.
And it's basically the latest generation
provisioned IOPS volume.
So like I said, you're never gonna see an exam
question where you have to choose gp2 over gp3
or io1 over io2 or vice versa.
It doesn't work like that.
And you won't have to go in there memorizing
specific performance metrics.
The only thing I would just remember
is if you need more than 16,000 IOPS per volume
you're gonna go from general purpose to IO intensive.
So io1 or io2.
So those are our SSSD volumes in a nutshell.
Let's move on to hard disk drive volumes.
And these are our magnetic storage.
So got st1, which is throughput optimize hard disk drive.
This is suitable for big data, data warehouses, ETL
which is this extract, transform, and load.
And you have a max throughput
of 500 megabytes per second per volume.
And st1 cannot be a boot volume.
You get three nines durability.
And then we have our cold hard disk drive and this is sc1.
And this gives you the max throughput
of 250 megabytes per volume.
And basically this is used for less frequently
accessed data.
So it could be file servers or something like that.
And again, it cannot be a boot volume either
but it is the lowest cost.
So if they are asking you to choose the lowest
cost EBS volume, then you always want to go with sc1
or cold hard disk drive
and it gives you up to 99.9% durability.
So that is it for this lecture, everyone.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.