Okay, hello, Cloud Gurus,
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture we're going to look at EC2 hibernation.
So we're going to look at our EBS behaviors reviewed.
Then we're gonna explore what EC2 hibernation is.
Then we'll look at EC2 hibernation in action,
and then we'll move on to my exam tips.
So EBS behaviors reviewed,
we've learned so far
that we can stop and terminate EC2 instances,
and if we stop the instance,
the data is kept on disk with EBS
and will remain on the disk until the EC2 instance started.
If the instance is terminated, then by default,
the root device volume will also be terminated,
but we can save that EBS volume if we wanted.
So when we start our EC2 instance, the following happens:
the operating system boots up,
and then the user data script is run.
And this is your bootstrap script,
which we covered off in the last section of the course.
And then your application starts,
so this might be things like Apache,
might be, you know, MySQL, et cetera, et cetera.
So your applications, when they're starting up,
they can take some time, especially if you're dealing
with very complicated Big Data applications, for example.
So with EC2 hibernation,
basically what happens is
when you hibernate an EC2 instance,
the operating system is told to perform hibernation,
and this basically suspends to disk.
Now hibernation saves the contents from the instance memory,
so from its RAM, to your EBS volume.
And we persist the instance's EBS root volume
and any attached EBS data volumes.
So essentially, what you're doing is you're taking
what's in the RAM and you're saving it down to disk.
So when you start your instance out of hibernation,
the EBS root volume is restored to its previous state,
and then the RAM contents are reloaded,
and the processes that were previously running
on the instance are also resumed.
And previously attached data volumes are then reattached,
and the instance retains its instance ID.
So here's a good little diagram.
We've got our EC2 instance that's running.
It's got EBS root device volumes.
We start hibernation,
and then what happens is the RAM is then stopped,
and it's saved to disk,
and the instance is shut down and completely stopped.
And then what happens is when we start that instance,
the EBS root volume is restored to its previous state.
The RAM contents are reloaded,
and the processes that were previously were running
on the instance are resumed.
So what does this mean in practice?
Well, with EC2 hibernation,
the instance boots a lot faster
because the operating system does not need to reboot
because the in-memory state or the RAM is preserved.
And this is useful for things like lon-running processes
or services that take time to initialize.
So going into your exam,
you basically just need to know what EC2 hibernation is.
So EC2 hibernation preserves the in-memory RAM
on persistent storage, so on EBS,
and it's much faster to boot up.
You don't need to reload the operating system,
and the RAM must be less than 150 gigs in size
for EC2 hibernation to work
And instance families,
including instances in general purpose, compute, memory,
and storage optimized groups, are supported.
They may add more families later on.
You don't need to remember all the families for your exam.
Essentially, what you just need to know
is what EC2 hibernation is.
Remember that it's available for Windows,
Amazon Linux 2 AMI, and Ubuntu.
Instances can't be hibernated for more than 60 days,
so 60 days is the maximum amount of time that you can do it,
and it's available for On-Demand instances
and Reserved instances.
So that is it for this lecture, everyone.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.