Okay, hello cloud gurus
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture we're going to look at Elastic File System
or EFS as an overview.
So we're gonna start with what EFS is,
what the different use cases are.
We'll do an overview of it
and then we'll look at different performance elements
and how we can control our performance with EFS.
We'll then look at our different storage tiers.
We'll do a demo as how to set this up in the AWS console
and then we'll move on to our exam tips.
So what is EFS?
Well, EFS stands for Amazon Elastic File System
and basically it's a managed NFS or network file system
that can be mounted on many different EC2 instances at once.
So EFS works with EC2 instances
that are in multiple availability zones.
So you can set up EFS and have centralized storage
and attach it to multiple EC2 instances.
So it's basically just shared storage
and it's highly available, it's scalable,
however it is expensive.
So this is essentially what it would look like.
We've got our AWS cloud and then we've got our VPC
and inside it we've got our EC2 instances
and they are basically have a mount target towards EFS
and it's a way for them to share data.
So you can have even up to,
let's say a thousand EC2 instances,
all connecting to the same file system.
So this is a great way of having web server farms.
It's a great way for things like content management systems
or shared database access, et cetera.
So it's a shared storage across multiple EC2 instances.
So in terms of its use cases,
we can use it for things like content management.
So it's great fit for content management systems.
This could be things like WordPress blogs for example
or Joomla websites, because you can easily share content
between your EC2 instances.
Can also be used as a web server farm.
Like I said, it's great fit for web servers.
You basically just have a single folder structure
for your website.
In terms of EFS, it uses the NFSv4 protocol.
It's compatible with Linux based AMIs.
Windows is not supported at this time
and we'll cover off shared storage for Windows
in a later lecture,
but right now this is Linux only for EFS.
It uses encryption at rest using key management servers
and we do cover that off later on
in the security part of the course
and basically it's a file system that scales automatically
and you don't have to worry about capacity planning.
So you don't have to say,
"Hey I'm gonna need a hundred gigs."
It basically scales automatically as you add files to it.
So it's great way of having an elastic file system
and it's pay per use, so the more you use, the more you pay
and like I said, it is expensive.
EFS has amazing performance capabilities.
However, you can have thousands of concurrent connections.
So EFS can literally support thousands
of concurrent connections or thousands of EC2 instances.
You can get 10 gigabits per second throughput.
So it's really, you know,
super fast in terms of throughput
and it scales to the petabytes,
so you can scale your storage up into the petabytes.
So it has really, really good performance
and now when you create your EFS file system,
you can actually set what performance characteristics
you want, so you can have general purpose.
This is great for things like web servers,
content management systems, et cetera.
Then you can have things like Max I/O
and this can be used for big data or media processing,
et cetera.
Moving on to storage tiers,
EFS is very similar to S3,
in that it comes with two different storage tiers
and you can even use lifecycle management,
which allows you to move your data
from one tier to another after,
and it's set number of days that you specify.
So we've got our standard storage tier.
This is for our frequently accessed files,
but then we also have our
infrequently accessed storage tier
and this is for files that are not frequently accessed.
So you can move your files after,
let's say 30 days from standard to infrequently access
and you'll save some money.
So let's go ahead to the AWS console
and have a look at how we can set up EFS.
Okay, so here I am in the AWS console.
We can get to EFS by going to storage and clicking on EFS,
or you can type it in here.
We're gonna open up EFS.
Now because I haven't created EFS systems
before in this account, get this splash screen,
see our file systems over here.
Let's go ahead and create a file system.
In here, we just give it a name.
So we'll call it MyEFS
and in here we could just gonna put it
into our default vpc in Northern Virginia.
Go ahead and hit create
and you can see that it has now been created
or it is being, it's creating.
You can see by default that it is encrypted
and we can see that the size is very small at the moment,
but we can increase that as we grow.
It became available immediately.
This has come a long way since that first came out.
Used to take at least half an hour from memory,
but now it just deploys instantaneously.
In here, we can go ahead and view the details of our EFS,
so we can look at the size, we can do some monitoring,
do our file system policies, our access points,
which we can cover off later
in the VPC section of the course.
Network and replication.
To be honest, it's all beyond the scope
of the solutions architect associate, playing with EFS.
Essentially, all you really need to do
is understand what EFS is.
You can go in and edit it and so you can change things.
So notice that backups are enabled automatically.
We can do lifecycle management with EFS.
We can change its performance settings,
so we can have enhance, we can have bursting,
we can have elastic, we can have provisioned,
et cetera, et cetera,
but like I said, it doesn't really come up too much
in the Solutions Architect Associate exam,
other than knowing what it is and where you would use it.
So let's go onto my exam tips.
So going into your exam, like I just said,
what you really need to know about EFS
is where you would use it.
So EFS supports the Network File System Version four
or NFSv4 protocol.
You only pay for the storage that you use.
You don't need to worry about pre-provisioning
like we just saw then, you click it and it's there
almost instantly.
It can scale up to petabytes.
It can support thousands of concurrent
NFS connections at once
and data is stored across multiple availability zones
within a region and you get Read-after-write consistency
and if you have a scenario based question,
around highly scalable shared storage using NFS,
I want you to think immediately of EFS.
So that is it for this lecture, everyone.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.