Okay, hello Cloud Gurus,
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture, we're going to look at FSx Overview.
And so where this comes up in your exam
is there's different types of FSx services.
So there's FSx for Windows, FSx for Lustre.
And then we basically compare it with EFS.
So in this lecture, we're just going to look at
what FSx for Windows is.
We're going to compare FSx for Windows vs. EFS.
We're then going to look at FSx for Lustre.
And we're going to look at FSx for Lustre performance,
and then we'll go onto my exam tips.
So let's start with, What is FSx for Windows?
Well Amazon FSx for Windows File Server
provides a fully managed native
Microsoft Windows file system.
So you can easily move your Windows-based applications
that require file storage to AWS.
And basically, Amazon FSx is built on Windows server.
So if you see any scenario-based questions where
it's talking about SharePoint migrations
and you need something like shared storage,
I want you to immediately think of FSx for Windows.
So how is FSx for Windows different from EFS?
Well FSx for Windows is a managed Windows server
that runs Windows server message block.
So it runs SMB-based file services.
So it's designed for Windows
and Windows applications essentially.
And so it supports things like active directory users,
access control lists, groups, security policies,
along with the distributed file system,
namespaces and replication.
Whereas EFS is a managed NAS filer for EC2 instances
which is based on the network file system, or NFS version 4.
And this is one of the first network file protocols
that was native to Unix and Linux.
So if you get a scenario-based question where it's talking
about migrating SharePoint or active directory
on to some form of shared storage,
I want you to immediately think of FSx for Windows.
So moving on to Amazon FSx for Lustre.
This is a fully managed file system
that's optimized for compute-intensive workloads.
So this could be things like high performance computing
or machine learning, or media data processing workflows
or electronic design automation.
So essentially it's anything to do with AI
and machine learning.
So if you get any scenario-based questions
where it's talking about processing massive datasets,
so you have hundreds of gigabytes per second of throughput,
you need millions of IOPS and sub-millisecond latencies,
I want you to think of Amazon FSx for Lustre performance.
It gives you amazing performance capabilities.
And it's, like I said, used for AI and machine learning.
So in the exam
you'll be given different scenarios and asked to choose
whether you should use EFS, FSx for Windows,
or FSx for Lustre.
So you'd use EFS where you need distributed,
highly resilient storage for Linux instances
and Linux-based applications.
Amazon FSx for Windows is where you need centralized storage
for Windows-based applications, such as SharePoint,
or SQL server, or workspaces, or IIS web server,
or basically any other native Microsoft application.
Essentially anything that's Microsoft,
and it needs centralized storage, just straightaway,
think of Amazon FSx for Windows.
And then Amazon FSx for Lustre is where you need high-speed,
high-capacity distributed storage.
And this will be for applications
that do high performance computing,
financial modeling, etc, etc.
And remember that FSx for Lustre
can store data directly on S3.
So that is it for this lecture, everyone.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.