Okay, hello, Cloud Gurus,
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture, we're going to look
at protecting our EBS Volumes with encryption.
So first thing we'll do is we'll explore
what EBS Encryption is.
We'll look at what happens when you encrypt.
We'll look at some basic facts about EBS Encryption.
Then we'll look at how to encrypt existing volumes
that are unencrypted.
Then, I'll actually show you how to do this
in the console and that is a very, very popular exam topic.
So it's definitely something
to remember going into your exam.
And then, we'll just cover off my Exam Tips.
So EBS Encryption basically,
you can encrypt your EBS Volumes and you use a data key
that's using the industry standard AES-256 algorithm.
So, Amazon EBS Encryption uses AWS KMS,
as well as customer master keys
when encrypting encrypted volumes and snapshots.
And like I said, we will explore KMS in a bit more detail
in the security section of the course.
But just for the purposes of this lecture, all you need
to understand is you can encrypt your EBS Volumes
and you can either manage the key yourself
or you can have Amazon manage it for you.
So what happens when you encrypt an EBS Volume?
Well, the data at rest is encrypted inside the volume
and all data in flight moving between the instance
and the volume is encrypted, and all snapshots are going
to be encrypted and all volumes created
from your snapshot are going to be encrypted as well.
So the encryption is basically end-to-end.
So, in terms of EBS Encryption,
it's handled transparently.
Encryption and decryption are handled transparently.
Basically, you don't need to do anything.
In terms of latency,
encryption has a minimal impact on latency
so you won't get any performance degradation.
Copying an unencrypted snapshot allows encryption
and this is a very popular exam topic and that's
what we're going to cover off in the console.
Snapshots of encrypted volumes are
automatically encrypted as well.
So root device volumes, which is basically the volume
in which your operating system is installed on by default,
you can now encrypt the root device volumes upon creation.
So that is definitely possible.
If you don't, however, we will go through
and we'll show you exactly
how to encrypt those root device volumes.
So four steps to encrypt an unencrypted volume,
basically, you create a snapshot
of the unencrypted root device volume.
You then create a copy of the snapshot
and you select the encrypt option.
And then we create an AMI from the encrypted snapshot
and then we use that AMI to launch a new encrypted instance.
So let's go ahead and have a look
at how this works in the AWS console.
Okay, so a very popular exam topic is you've got
an EC2 instance.
It was created ages ago, and it's not encrypted.
And a new security measure comes forward
from your CTO saying,
all your EC2 instances
Route Device volumes must be encrypted.
How do you go about doing that? Well, as we saw
in a previous lecture, we launched this EC2 instance here
with the root device volume.
We called it MyServer1.
And if we go to our Storage,
we can see that it is not encrypted.
So, if we scroll down here we can see
that it's not encrypted.
So the way we can go ahead and encrypt this is
if we click on the Volume ID,
what we did last time is we just created a snapshot of it.
And so we actually do have that snapshot here.
This is the snapshot that we created previously.
And then all we need to do is go to Actions.
And what we can do is go Copy Snapshot.
And as you remember, we used the Copy Snapshot action
to move to different regions.
So we moved it from us-east to one,
I think it was over the island, so eu-west-1.
But we don't need to do that in this case.
What we're gonna do is we're gonna go ahead
and just say, "Hey, let's encrypt this snapshot."
And here we can use the, choose our KMS keys.
We're just gonna use the default AWS EBS key.
So Amazon managed that key for us.
And then, what we're gonna do is go ahead
and hit Copy Snapshot.
And that has now, is creating our encrypted snapshot.
And you can see the difference here.
One says "Encrypted,"
and the other one says "Not encrypted."
So it can take a little bit of time.
I'm just gonna pause the video and wait for this
to come up online.
Okay, we can see that that has now been finished,
is now completed.
We can see that it's encrypted here.
And then what we want to do is click in here,
go to our Actions, and we want to create an image
from this snapshot.
We can call it MyEncryptedSnap, something like that.
And then I'll leave everything else as default.
Go ahead and create my image.
So that has now created my AMI.
And you can see it in here.
And if we go across, we can see it's available.
And if we go all the way over,
see if it shows us if it's encrypted or not.
I think if you click in here,
you'll be able to go to your storage
and then you'll be able to see that it's encrypted in here.
And then, all we need to do is launch an instance
from this AMI, and then that instance will encrypted.
So that is how we go from taking an EC2 instance
that has a root device volume that's not encrypted,
and how we go about the encryption process.
So all we do is create a snapshot.
We then create a copy of the snapshot
and we basically encrypt the copy.
We then create an image from that copy,
and then we launch the instance from that AMI.
It is a very, very, very popular exam topic.
So just remember that.
So, let's go onto my Exam Tips.
So onto my Exam Tips and with encrypted volumes,
just remember that data at rest is encrypted
inside the volume.
All data in flight moving between the instance
and the volume is encrypted.
All snapshots are encrypted and all volumes created
from the snapshot are encrypted.
So this is with encrypted volumes only.
In terms of how to encrypt volumes,
so it's what we just covered off.
But essentially, what you need to do is you need
to create a snapshot of the unencrypted root device volume.
You then create a copy of the snap
and select the Encrypt option.
You then create an AMI from the encrypted snap
and then you use that AMI
to launch the new encrypted instances.
So that is it for this lecture, everyone.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.