[Ryan Kroonenburg] Okay, hello cloud gurus
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture we're going to look at
volumes and snapshots.
So we're gonna start with what are volumes
and then what are snapshots.
We'll do three tips for snapshots
and we'll look at what to know about EBS volumes.
We'll go in and do a demo,
and then we'll go onto my exam tips.
So what are volumes?
Well, volumes exist on EBS.
So think of it as a virtual hard disk,
volumes are simply virtual hard disks,
and you need a minimum of one volume per EC2 instance.
And this is always called the root device volume.
This is where your operating system is installed.
So this is where windows is installed,
or where Linux is installed, et cetera.
So that's all a volume is.
So what are snapshots?
Well, the camera might give it away.
Snapshots exist on S3, so they do not exist on EBS.
They're actually stored on S3.
But essentially what it is, is it's a snapshot,
is a photo of the virtual disc or of the volume.
So you're literally taking a snapshot of the volume,
how it exists when you initiate that snap.
So snapshots are point in time.
When you take a snapshot it's a point in time copy
of a volume.
So it's just like taking a photo.
It's a point in time copy of something that is occurring.
So snapshots are incremental.
This means that only the data that has been changed
since your last snapshot has been moved to S3.
So essentially this saves dramatically on space
and the time that it takes to take a snapshot.
So let's say we installed a Linux OS
and then we took a snap of it,
and then we created a text file that just said
hello cloud gurus, and it was called Hello.TXT.
When we take a second snap, it's only the changes
that have occurred from our first snap
that will be replicated over to S3.
So essentially it's just going to be a small text file.
Now it's actually, it doesn't quite work like that.
It's not like it's moving the file over,
but it's basically taking a photograph of the volume,
how it exists,
and then essentially it just moves over the deltas,
so the change in those volumes.
So that's all it is.
Snapshots are incremental
and it saves you a lot of money on space and time
because you're not moving the entire,
you know, data set over.
It's only the changes that are being moved over.
That being said though,
the first snapshot may take some time to create
as there's no previous point in time copy.
So when you take your first snapshot
it's going to take longer
than when you take your subsequent snapshots.
So what are my three tips for snapshots?
So if you want consistent snapshots,
snapshots only capture the data that has been written
to your EBS volume.
And this might exclude any data
that's been locally cached in your application
or operating system.
So for a consistent snapshot,
it's recommended that you stop the instance and take a snap.
Basically, if you are doing it on a running operating system
and your application's running
and it hasn't saved it to disc and you go and take a snap,
because it's not saved to disk, it might still be in RAM
or it might still be cached or whatever,
then it's not going to be on that snapshot.
So if you want a completely consistent snapshot,
the best bet is to stop an instance and then take a snap.
In terms of encrypted snapshots,
if you take a snapshot of an encrypted EBS volume,
then of course the snapshot will be encrypted automatically.
And in terms of sharing snapshots, you can share snapshots,
but only in the region in which they were created.
To share to other regions,
you first need to copy them to the destination region first,
and we'll have a look at that in the demo,
but that's a crucial point going into your exam.
You do not know how many scenario-based questions
where they'll test you on how
to move EC2 instances from one region to another.
Well, you can do it, you basically just take a snapshot,
then you create a copy of that snap
and you copy it to another region
and then you can provision
that EC2 instance in another region.
So what should you know about EBS volumes?
Well, you should always know the location.
So EBS volumes will always be in the same availability zone
as your EC2 instance.
Crucial to know this.
And that kind of makes sense
because you do not want the latency.
If you imagine an EBS volume being a virtual hard disk,
you don't want your hard disk in one availability zone
and the actual computer that it's supposed to be connected
to in another availability zone,
20 or 30 miles apart.
Like that kind of latency is just not going to work.
So your EBS volumes will always be in the same availability
zone as your EC2 instances,
and it's really important to remember that
going into your exam.
Also, remember that you can resize on the fly.
So you can resize your EBS volumes on the fly.
You do not need to stop or restart the instance.
However, you will need to extend the file system
in the operating system
so the operating system can see the resized volume.
And you can switch and change volume types on the fly.
So you can go from GP2 to IO2,
and you don't need to stop or restart the instance.
And we'll have a look at how to do that right now.
So let's log into the AWS console.
Okay, so here I am in the AWS console.
We're gonna go over to EC2 and we're gonna go ahead
and provision a new instance.
And I'm just gonna call this,
my server something simple, one.
And I'm gonna use the Amazon Linux AMI,
my instance type's T2 Micro.
I'm gonna use my standard key pair
and then I'm gonna scroll down.
I'm going to use an existing security group.
So I'm just going to use my launch wizard one,
and then I'm gonna scroll down
and in here we can see our volume.
So my root device volume is one eight gig
GP3 root volume, which is not encrypted.
And then what I'm gonna do is just add a new volume
and in here I can select my different volumes.
So what I might want to do is go
and do a magnetic standard volume in here
and I can add additional volumes if I want.
So I could go and add a throughput optimize HDD,
et cetera, et cetera.
So you can add as many volumes as you want.
I think I'm just gonna remove that just to keep it simple.
Here we can see my volume two,
so we can see that's eight gigs.
We can see where it's mounted,
we can see that it's a volume type standard.
Here we can have it encrypted or not encrypted.
Delete on termination.
So if I'm gonna terminate my EC2 instance,
do I want this EBS volume to be terminated with it
or do I want it to persist?
This is entirely up to you.
Let's say this is a file server
and you were storing all your files on this particular
volume and you wanted to make sure that
if the file server was accidentally deleted,
that the files would remain,
then you would have delete on termination as no.
I'm just gonna put it as yes.
And we're gonna go ahead and launch this instance.
So that instance is now launching, go into instances,
we'll be able to see it in here,
and we can see that it is pending.
So I'm just gonna pause the video
and wait for this instance to come up online.
Okay, so my EC2 instance is now online.
I can click on it in here.
And if we're dealing with EBS,
then we want to click on storage.
And in here we can see our volumes.
So we've got our two different volumes.
We can see that they're attached,
we can see that they're not encrypted.
We will cover off encryption later on in the course.
You can actually click on the volume ID,
that will bring you up into your volumes.
And then this is basically sorted by a filter
so you can hit clear filters
and you'll be able to see all your EBS volumes here.
So we've got one here that's standard
and we've got one here that's GP3.
And we can see that this essentially
is not our route device volume,
it's attached to our EC2 instance as an additional volume.
Now what we can do is go in here
and we can see that it's in use.
We can see all kinds of different things, you know,
information about it such as not encrypted.
What we can do is go over to our actions and we can go
and modify our volume.
So we can go from magnetic standard all the way up to,
let's say we want GP3 and we can even change the size.
So the minimum's one gig, the maximum 16 gigs,
here's our IOPS, here's our throughput, et cetera.
So I'm going to change that volume
and it's going to essentially do it on the fly.
Says here if you're increasing the size of the volume,
you must extend the file system
to the new size of the volume.
You can only do this when the volume enters
the optimizing state.
And then it'll give you instructions on how to do that.
Don't worry too much about that.
Let's go ahead and hit modify.
And you can see here this is the volume
that we were trying to modify.
If we hit refresh, look how fast that is.
It's almost like black magic to me,
because it's come such a long way in the last 10, 15 years.
You can literally just go from a magnetic volume
to SSD in the blink of an eye.
So that is now a GP3 volume.
We can go in here and we can go to actions
and we can detach this volume,
so we can detach it from our EC2 instance.
Basically it's just like unplugging your hard drive,
an additional hard drive from your EC2 instance.
So I'm gonna go ahead and hit detach.
This actually does take a bit more time
than modifying the volume.
So I'm just gonna pause the video
and wait for it to come up online.
Okay, and we can now see that
it's successfully detached the volume.
If I refresh in here
we can see that it is no longer connected
to any EC2 instance.
So the way you can see that is
under attached instances it's got nothing.
And then the volume state, it says that it's available.
So what we can do now, if you just wanna go in
and delete that, we can go actions, delete volume,
and then we can go ahead and delete it.
So what we're going to look at now is
how can we migrate our EC2 instances
from one region to another?
And that is a very important exam topic that comes up again
and again and again.
Well, the first thing we need to do
is click on our root device volume.
So root device volumes,
just where we've got our operating system installed on it.
We've only got one EC2 instance, which is this one.
So we know that this is our root device volume
'cause there's only one volume.
And then what we wanna do is go over two actions
and then what we wanna do is create a snapshot.
And a snapshot is exactly like what you would think.
It's just a photograph of that root device volume in time.
So call it my first snap, something like that.
And then what I'm going to go ahead
and do is hit create snapshot.
So that is now creating snapshot.
It says here that it successfully created it,
but if you need your snapshot to be immediately available,
consider using Fast Snapshot Restore.
What we can do is click down here and go to snapshots
and we can see that that has now been completed.
It has sped up a lot, used to take a couple of minutes
before to create snapshots.
It is almost instantaneous now.
So the next thing we're going to do is we're going
to look at how can we deploy an EC2 instance
across to another region.
And the trick is, is using snapshots.
So we've got a snapshot of our root device volume
of our operating system.
We're gonna go over here
and we're going to copy this snapshot.
And in here we've got a description,
it's copied snap, my first snap.
And in here we're going to change the destination region.
So we could go over to EU West one for example.
We can click encrypt
and that would encrypt the snapshot.
Not gonna do that just yet,
but this is how we can move our snapshots
from one region to another.
So you can create a gold template EC2 instance,
it might be your gold template web server.
And then you can deploy those templates all over the world
just by creating a snapshot of it
and then copying the snapshots to different regions.
So I'm gonna copy this over to EU West one.
You see it's successfully created snapshot copy.
And then what we can do is just close this
and we can go over to EU West one
and see if that snapshot exists there.
And we're over in EU West one
and we can see the snapshot there.
So we can see that the snapshot status is pending.
So there's nothing I can do until this is completed.
So what I'm gonna do is just pause the video.
That is now completed.
Now what I can do is click in here
and I can go to my actions
and then I can create an image from the snapshot,
and then we'll just call this my default web server,
something like that.
So maybe this is our golden image for our default web server
and leave everything else as standard
and go in and create the image.
So successfully request a new image,
the image is being created,
your images are saved under AMIs.
So we can click in here
and we can see that this image is now available.
And from here I can click in
and launch my instance from this AMI
and call it my web server for example, web server.
And then scroll down.
And I'm not gonna go ahead and provision this
'cause I don't have any key pairs and I don't have any,
you know, security groups set up.
So you can go and launch an EC2 server from that image,
which is basically taken from your snapshot.
So that's the most important thing to remember
going into your exam.
You can move EC2 instances around the world.
All you need to do is first take a snapshot
of the root device volume,
you then create a copy of that snapshot
and you change the region
to the desired region that you want.
Once that snapshot is in that region,
you then create an image
and then you launch your EC2 instances from that image.
So let's go and have a look at my exam tips.
So the five things you need to remember for EBS volumes
and snapshots going into your exam is remember
that volumes exist on EBS,
whereas snapshots exist on S3.
Snapshots are point in time photographs of volumes,
and they're incremental in nature.
The first snapshot will take some time to create
and for consistent snapshots you need to stop the instance
and then detach the volume.
You can share snapshots between AWS accounts
as well as between regions.
But first you need to copy that snapshot
to the target region, which is what we just did.
And then finally just remember
that you can resize your EBS volumes on the fly
as well as changing the volume type
and it won't cause you any downtime.
So that is it for this lecture everyone.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.